=== HEALTHCARE EXTRACTION: CBA_01 ===
Source: C:/Users/zachary.parolin/INETInequality Dropbox/INET Inequality Team/Projects/LLMs & Inequality/1_CBAs/Cornell Archive/Cornell-DoL/4208Abbyy.pdf
Total document lines: 19269
Extracted healthcare lines: 2002
===========================================

Attachment A Group Benefits Package

Attachment r> Retiree Medical Plan
Index
iii
Page
1 1 2 2 5 7 9 10 11 22 23
23 29 32 33 33 34 37 38 38 38 38 39 41
43 44 44 45 45 46 46 47 48 49 49 50 50 SI 51 53 53
56
A-l
B-l
1-1
I
COLLECTrVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
1
2
between
3
4
THE BOEING COMPANY
5
6
and
7
SOCIETY OF PROFESSIONAL ENGINEERING EMPLOYEES IN AEROSPACE - WTPU
--
employment, otganizational personnel representatives, compensation and benefits, equal 45
employment opportunity/workforce diversity, staffing and workforce, union relations, people 46
systems and management development; (b) all individuals working in the Employee Assistance 47
Program; (c) all individuals in the Law and Ethics organizations: and (d) all individuals in the 48
Sectiriry and Fire protection organization. Not included in this group of confidential employees 4?
are those employees who coordinate and provide training programs,
50
51 1.1(b)(2) Employee* who work with confidential business information. The people in this 52 group include all individuals in the Business Operations, in Internal Audit, in Communications 53 and Public Affairs, in Srare and Local Government Relations and all Executive Office 54 Administrators. Additionally, certain employees in the Finance Organizations in payroll, 55 payment services, insurance, estimating/pricing, investment analysis, cost management, 56
1
3.3(b) The grievance shall be signed by the President of the Union or the designated Company
Representative, as the case may be, or their designated representatives. If no settlement is reached
within ten (10) workdays from the submission of the grievance to the designated Company
Representative or the designated representative of the Union, as the case may be, both shall sign the
grievance and indicate it has been discussed and considered by them and that no settlement has
been reached and the party responding to the grievance will promptly confirm in writing to the
--
written statement of the grievance. The arguments of the parties may be supported by oral comment
51
and rebuttal. Either or both parties may submit written briefs within a time period mutually agreed
52
upon. Such arguments of the parries, whether oral or written, shall be confined to and directed at the
53
matters set forth in the grievance.
54
55
3.6(e) Each party shall pay any compensation and expenses relating to its own witnesses or
representatives.
J
3.6(f) The Company and the Union shall, by mutuaJ consent, fix the amounr of compensation to be 1
paid for the services of the arbiter. The Union or the Company, whichever is ruled against by the 2
arbiter, shall pay the compensation of the arbiter including necessary expenses.
3.6(g) The total cost of the stenographic tecord, if requested, will be paid by the party requesring it. 5
If the other party also requests a copy, that parry will pay one-half of the stenographic costs.
--
* Leadership
23 24 Performance Evaluation may also include measurable performance goals tailored to support the business 25 goals of the individual's organization. These performance goals may be specific to the organization, job
26 classification, targets (e.g. Quality, Cost, Delivery, Safety, and Morale), or values.
27 28 A weighting methodology and value objective clarification can be applied to all or portions of these 29 measures at the organization, skill team or employee level during the define session. These weighting 30 methodologies and value objectives shall be explained to the employee during Define/Interim/Final
31 PE reviews.
32
33
4.2(a) The Performance Evaluation Process consists of three activities: define, interim review and final
34
review. Additional reviews may be conducted as requested.
35
36
4.2(a) (1) " Define" consists of cammunicaxion and documentation of current: job responsibilities,
37
value objectives, performance goals, any weighting, and areas of strengths and weaknesses for
38
development, as well as any other subjects relating to performance. Define activities will be
39
completed within forty-five (45) calendar days of the beginning of the annual Performance
40
Evaluation cycle.
41
--
form with the final review summary will be placed in the employees personnel folder. Supporting
data may be retained by the employee and the manager.
4.2(b) It is expected that occasional disagreement over Performance Evaluation content will be 1
resolved at the lowest possible level. A skip-level manager may be involved in the process for this 2
putpose. However, in those few instances where such resolution is not possible, the Union may 3
involve the Major Organization Human Resource Director (or designee).
4.2(c) Performance Evaluation sessions (define, interim and final reviews) shall be scheduled 6
to maximize their utility in selective salary and rerencior? index decisions. Recommended schedule 7
is; Define sessions: January - February; Interim sessions: June - July; Final review: December - 8
January.
9
10
4.2(d) When an employee transfers to a new group with differing performance goals, a new 11
Performance Evaluation Define session will be scheduled within forty-five (45) days of transfer to the 12
new group.
13
14
--
26
--
and is consideted in the best interest of the employee and the Company. Each employee should have the 49
opportunity to schedule and take vacation each year and thereby use their vacation credits, allowing 50
adequate staffing for Company operations.
Section 5-2 Accumulation of Vacation,
5.2(a) Vacation credits are accrued daily and awarded weekly, with credits increasing on the basis of 55
established increments as follows:
/
Company Service Annual Vacation
1 thru 4 years
80 hours
5 thru 9 years
96 hours
--
(b) illness or dearh in the family (requiring rhe employee's presence); and (c) medical or dental 45
appointment which Can be scheduled only during the working hours. Non-exempt employees may 46
use sick leave in any increments, but exempt employees shall use NON1ND for usage of less rhan a 47
full day.
'
48
49
6.3(b) Sick leave payments will be at the employee's base rate in effect at the time of his or her absence 50
plus; if applicable, any supplement to the base rate approved by the Company for inclusion in sick 51
leave pay.
6.3(c) Sick leave hours will be used from sick leave hours most recently credited.
55 6.3(d) Notwithstanding 6.3(a), sick leave credits may be used by an employee on leave of absence. 56
deemed practicable by the Company, surpluses -wilt be resolved by placing individuals in other
assignments.
--
index to determine eligibility for re-employment consideration under 8.4(b)(1). The review will 25
be limited to those employees for whom thete is supporting documentation of performance 26
deficiencies. The review will be performed by the cognizant management for the employee's Skills 27
Management Code. Based on the review, the employee will be advised no later than the time the 28
layoff notice is issued as so his or her eligibility for re-employment consideration under 8.4(b)(1). 29
An employee determined ineligible may appeal such determination to the cognizant captain, If 30
the appeal does not resolve the matter, the employee may then file a grievance in accordance with 31
Ankle 3. Such grievance shall be limited to the first three (3) steps of the grievance procedure 32
and shall not be subject to arbitration.
8.4(b)(5) At the time of layoff, the Company automatically will place in the file for priority 35
consideration return to active employment the names of all laid-off employees. The Company will 36
maintain a list of the names of all laid-off employees except those determined ineligible under 37
8.4(b)(4), those who have received layoff benefits as a lump sum under 21.3(a), and those 38
identified in 8,5. in order to maintain such recall status, the employee must keep the Company 39
informed of his or her interest in returning to active employment by submitting a letter so stating. 40
The employee must register by letter once each consecutive calendar half-year period (January 41
through June; July through December) during the three (3)-year period from the date of layoff. 42
Registration letters must be received within forty-fwe (45) days prior to the expiration of the 43
current half-year period and must contain the individual's name, social security number, address, 44
and telephone number. Individuals who do not properly register in each calendar period will be 45
--
8.6(f) If the temporarily-recalled employee begins within one (1) year of the original layoff effective 14
date, eligibility for coverage for medical/dental insurance, life insurance, accidental death and 15
dismemberment insurance, business travel accident insurance, long-term and short-term disability 16
insurance, and voluntary personal accident insurance begins on the first day of the month following 17
the month in which the re-employment commences. If the temporarily-recalled employee begins at 18
least one (1) year after the original layoff effective date, eligibility for coverage for such benefits begins 19
the first day of the month following one (1) full calendar month of continuous employment.
20
21
8.6(g) With regard to the Retirement Plan, unused sick leave, and vacation, emp\oyecs on Temporary 22
Recall will be set up in the system based on their respective layoff/recall circumstances. This will 23
include the reactivation of unused hut earned credits and the generation of future benefits consistent 24
. with standard policies. Voluntary Investment Plan contributions may be resumed, beginning on the 25
first of rhe month following recall.
27
8.6(h) Company service will be earned beginning the first day back on the active payroll.
28
29
S.6(i) Active layoffstatu* will nor be interrupted. Filing requirements once during each half-year for 30
first consideration recall status will remain.
31
--
22 source of skilled temporary labor that allows the Company to acquire skilled professional and technical
23 support in a timely manner. The Company and Union recognize that requirements for experienced
24 Contract personnel must be balanced with the need to build and maintain the Boeing experience base and
25 to support our mutual objective of workforce stabilization by minimizing employee layoffs.
27 Section 9.2 Definition, The term Contract personnel refers to temporary personnel supplied by
28 another business entity to perform work on Company premises under the daily control and supervision
29 of Company management. The business entities that provide Contract petsonnel normally ate in the
30 business of providing temporary services (such as temporary employment agencies and staffing firms).
31 Sources of Contract petsonnel may also include businesses in the aerospace or related fields this make their
32 personnel available for temporary labor (so called 'industry assist' arrangements). Excluded from the
33 definition of Contract personnel are consultants and their employees and employees of subcontractors or
34 vendors.
36 Section 9,3 Procedures and Limitations.
9.3(a) The Company shall notify the Union of the basis for the need, the approximate number
of Contract personnel required and the Skills Management Codes normally held by employees
performing the type of work involved.
42
--
personnel are still employed in that Skills Management Code within that Major Organization, except 2
those employees as to whom there is supporting documentation of performance deficiencies. No 3
employee with an assigned retention rating of Rl or R2 shall be laid off from a surplussing Major 4
Organization while Contract personnel are still employed in that skills management code within that, 5
or any other, Major Organization.
9.3(f) Exceptions to this Article to avoid significant disruption or impact on committed packages of 8
work will require the approval of the affected Major Organization Senior Human Resources person 9
within the Major Organization and the concurrence of the Functional Director, who reports to the 10
General Manager. Notification will be provided to the Union as soon as practicable.
11
12
Section 9.4 Data. Upon request, the Company shall supply the Union with data that displays the 13
number of contract personnel utilized by Skills Management Code by Major Organization, so that 14
compliance with all limitations identified in 9.3 can be monitored. The data shall include names, Skills 15
Management Codes as applicable, organizations, and start dates.
16
17
18
ARTICLE 10
19
--
12.1(h)(l)c Layoff protection does not apply to Executive Board Members and Council 34
Representatives who, at the time of election or appointment, have received an active advance 35
notice of potential layoff, unless the Board Member or Representative is running for 36
reelection to a consecutive term of office.
12.1(h)(l)d Nothing herein precludes an Executive Board Member or Council 39
Representative from requesting a voluntary or accelerated layoff.
12.1(h)(2) In the event management deems it necessary ro involuntarily transfer or loan a 42
Council Representative, and other employees then represented by the Council Representative 43
would remain in the same skill code, when practicable rhe Company will inform the Union of 44
the proposed transfer or loan thirty (30) days prior to its effective dare and will discuss with the 45
Union the feasibility of transferring or loaning another employee.
46
47
Section 12.2 Union Staff Representatives'Access to Plants, Union Staff Representatives not employed 48
by the Company will be permitted access during working hours ro areas in the Company's facilities where 49
employees in the bargaining units defined in Article 1 are assigned, to the extent government and customer 50
regulations permit. Unless mutually agteed in advance, such access shall be only for the purpose of 51
investigating complaints ot claims of grievance on the patt of employees or the Union and shall be subject 52
--
34 Ocrober 1, 2004, the Company will provide the life benefits, accidental death and dismemberment
35 benefits, medical benefits and dental benefits for eligible employees and medical benefits and dental
36 benefits for covered dependents of eligible employees as summarised in the document entitled Attachment
37 A, as the Group Benefits Package. Additionally, the Company will provide access to the optional Voluntary
38 Personal Accidenr Plan and Long-Term Disability Plan as offered to other SPEEA-represented employees
39 in Wichita and the Supplemental Life and Short-Term Disability Plan currently provided to employees
40 within this unit. Employees will be required to pay for these benefits. Effective January 1, 2005,
41 employees may also contribute, on a pre-tax basis up to a maximum of $3,000, to a Health Care
42 Reimbursement Account Plan for qualifying expenses.
43
44 Section 16.2 Cost of the Group Benefits Package for Employees on the Active Payroll.
45
16.2(a) Life and Accidental Death and Dismemberment Benefits. The Company wili pay the full
cost of the Life and Accidental Death and Dismembermenr Plans for eligible employees.
16.2(b) Medical Benefits.
16.2(b)(1) The current contributions for the Traditional Medical Plan will continue through
September 30, 2004.
16.2(b)(2) Effective October 1, 2004, in regions where employees may choose berween the
Traditional Medical Plan and a coordinated care plan, the Company will pay the full cost of the
lowest-cost plan in the applicable region for eligible employees and dependents. Employees
and dependents that elect coverage under a higher cost plan will contribute on a pre-tax basis I
rwelve percent (12%) of the cost of the plan the employee chooses.
16.2(b)(3) Effective July 1, 2005, in regions where employees may choose between the 4
Traditional Medical Plan and a coordinated care plan, the Company will pay the full cost 5
of the lowest-cost plan in the applicable region for eligible employees and dependents. 6
Employees and dependents that elect coverage under a higher cost plan will contribute 7
on a pre-tax basis 18 percent (18%) of the cost of the plan the employee chooses. The monthly 8
contribution will nor exceed $89 for an employee only, $178 for either an employee and 9
spouse or an employee and child(ren) and $267 for an employee and family in years 2004, 2005 10
and 2006.
16.2(b)(4) For employees who live in areas where coordinated-care plans are not available, the 13
Company will pay the full cost of the Traditional Medical Plan.
15
16.2(b)(5) The employee is required to contribute an addirional $100 each month for medical 16
coverage under the Group Benefits Package to enroll a spouse if the spouse is eligible for 17
medical coverage under another employer-sponsored plan and waives such coverage. This $100 18
contriburion will not be required for a spouse who waived coverage under anorher 19
employer-sponsored plan prior to eligibility for medical coverage under the Group Benefits 20
Package, provided the spouse enrolls at the other plan's next enrollment period or, if earlier, ar an 21
enrollmenr date allowed by the other plan.
22
23
16.2(c) Dental Benefits. The Company will pay the full cost of the Preferred Dental Plan, 24
Scheduled Dental Plan or the Prepaid Provider Dental Plan.
25
16.2(d) Part-time Employees. Employees on parr-time work schedules will be offered a benefits 27
package in accordance wirh standard Boeing policy, PRO-522.
Section 16.3 Type of Retiree Medical Plan. The Company will continue until Decembet 31, 2001, the 30
existing retiree medical plan mar is currently offered for employees hired prior to January 1, 1999. 31
Thereafter, the Company will provide for the duration of this'Agreemenr rhe medical benefirs for eligible 32
rerired employees hired prior ro January 1, 1999, and for covered dependents of eligible retired employees 33
as summarized in the document entitled Attachment B, effective January 1, 2002, or on such later dare 34
when specifically stated therein and subject to all of the terms and conditions contained in or refected to 35
in such Attachment B.
* 37
Section 16.4 Cost of the Retiree Medical Plan. The Company will share the cost of medical coverage 38
for current and future eligible retired employees as follows:
16.4(a) Effective October 1, 2004, Company and retired employee contributions will be as follows: 41
For any coordinated care/health maintenance organizarion plan coverage, retired employees will 43
contribute $10 for a retired employee only, $20 for a retired employee and spouse, $20 for a retired 44
employee and child(ren), or $30 for a retired employee and family. For Tradirional Medical Plan 45
coverage, retired employees will contribute $20 for a rerired employee only, $40 for a retired employee 46
and spouse, $40 for a retired employee and child(ren), or $60 for a retired employee and family. The 47
Company will pay the cost of each plan in excess of the amount contributed by rerired employees. Any 48
Company contribution will be made only for an eligible retired employee who meets the eligibility 49
requirements of the Retiree Medical Plan and authorizes deducrion of the balance of plan rates, if any, 50
from his or her retirement check or agrees to make timely self-payments for such coverage. Such 51
employer contribution will continue for an eligible retired employee or eligible spouse, except as 52
described in 16.4(c). until such eligible person attains 65 years of age or is earlier eligible for Medicare, 53
and for a dependent child, until such child is no longer an eligible dependent or earlier qualifies for 54
Medicare, or until such eligible person fails to make timely self-payment of a required conrribution.
16.4(b) Fot employees who were hired on or after January 1, 1993, and before January 1, 1999,
the Company contributions are limited to three and one-rhird percent (3-1/3%) of rhe cost of the
coordinated care/health maintenance organization plan or Traditional Medical Plan the retired
employee chooses per year of service for the duration of rhe Agreement. Retired employees pay the
difference (the cost of the plan minus the Company contributions). However, all covered retired
employees must make contributions not less than specified in 16.4(a).
8
16.4(c) The retired employee is required to contribute $100 each month to enrol! a dependent spouse
in the Retiree Medical Plan if the spouse is eligible for coverage under another employer-sponsored
plan as an active employee and waives such coverage. This $ 100 contribution will not be required for
a spouse who waived coverage under another employer-sponsored plan prior to eligibility for medical
coverage under the Group Benefits Package, provided the spouse enrolls at rhe other plans next
enrollment period or, if earlier, at an enrollment date allowed by the other plan or for a spouse who
is employed part-time.
16 Section 16.5 Details and Method of Coverage. The benefits summarized in the Group Benefits
17 Package and the Retiree Medical Plan shall be procured by the Company under contracts and/or
18 administrative agreements with insurance companies, health care contractors of administrative agents
19 which will be in the form customarily written by such carriers and administrative agents, and the Group
20 Benefirs Package and Retiree Medical Plan shall be subject ro the terms and conditions of such contracts
21 and/or adminisrrative agreements, consistent with the summary in the Group Benefits Package or Retitee
22 Medical Plan.
24 Such contracts and/or administrative agreemenrs will require rhe adminisrrarive agents ro develop various
25 programs and procedures designed to contain costs based on those portions of rhe Group Benefits Package
26 and the Retiree Medical Plan that contain the requirement that charges are covered only on the basis of
27 medical necessity. Such cost containment programs or procedures may be utilized ro determine the
28 medical necessity of the treatment itself, the appropriateness of the services provided, the place of
29 tteatment or the duration of treatment. The administrative agents and the Company will announce
30 each such program or procedure before it is required or available to the affected employees or rerirees. Any
31 such cost containment program or procedure will not operate to reduce or deny the benefit
32 properly due under the Plans to any covered person or to shift the costs covered under the Plans to the
33 covered person,
35 The failure of an insurance company, health care contractor or administrative agent to provide any of the
36 benefits fot which it has contracred shall result in no liability to the Company, nor shall such failure be
37 considered a breach by the Company of the obligations that it has undertaken by rbis Agreement.
38 However, in the event of any such failure, the Company shall immediately attempt to provide substitute
39 coverage.
41 Section 16.6 Administration. The Group Benefits Package and the Retiree Medical Plan shall be
42 administered by rhe insurance companies, healrh care contractors or adminisrrative agents with whom rhe
43 Company enters inro contractual relationships for the purpose of providing and/or administering the
44 coverage conremplated by the Group Benefirs Package or the Retiree Medical Plan and no question of issue
45 arising under the administration of such Group Benefits Package Of the Retiree Medical Plan or the
46 contracts and/or administrative agreemenrs identified therewith shall be subject to the grievance and
47 arbirrarion procedures of" Article 3 of this Agreement.
49 Section 16.7 Copies of Policies to be furnished to Union. Copies of the policies, contracts, and
50 administrative agreements executed putsuant to this Article 16 shall be furnished to the Union and the
51 coverages and benefits indicated in the Group Benefits Package or the Retiree Medical Plan, the rights of
52 eligible employees in respect of such coverages, and rhe settlement of" all claims arising our of such
53 coverages shall be in accordance with the provisions, terms and rules set forth in such contracts.
55 Section 16.8 Federal or State Packages. If during the term of this Agreement there is mandated by
56 federal or state government a program that affords to employees and/or retirees covered by this Agreement
similar benefits (such as but not limited to medical benefits and dentaJ benefits) to those that are afforded 1
by this Agreement, benefits afforded by this Agreement wili be replaced by such federal or srare program. 2
The Company will comply with the provisions for the furnishing of such program to the extent required 3
by law. No question or issue regarding the !eve! of benefits under the state or federal program will be 4
subject to the grievance and arbitration procedures Article of this Agreement.
Section 16.9 Health Care Reimbursement Account Plan. The Health Care Reimbursement Account 7
Plan will be effective January 1, 2005.
ARTICLE 17
U
RETIREMENT PLAN
Section 17.1 Continuation of Plan. Subjecr to the continuing approval of the Commissioner of internal 14
Revenue and of other cognizant governmenral aurhorities, as more particularly hereinafter specified, and 15
to the provisions of 17.5i a Retirement Plan (hereinafter called the "Plan" in the form now in effect as to 16
the employees within the units to which this Agreement relates shall continue to be effecrive while this 17
Agteement is in effect as to such employees in accordance with and subject to the terms, conditions, and 18
limitations of the Plan.
Section 17.2 Approval of Plan. Approval of the Tlan by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue as 21
referred to in 17.1 means a continuing approval sufficient ro establish that the Plan and related trust(s) are 22
ar all times qualified and exempt from income tax under Section 401 (a) and other applicable provisions of 23
--
Section 21.5 Continuation of Medical Coverage. In rhe evenr of layoff, medical coverage for 33
employees and dependents will continue until the employee is covered by any other group medical plan 34
either as an employee or as a dependenr, bur in no event beyond three (3) months after rhe date of layoff, 35
Required contributions, if any, must be paid during any period of such continuation of coverage.
ARTICLE 22
JOB CLASSIFICATIONS
Section 22.1 Job Classifications System.
22.1(a) The Company will maintain a job classification system. In the system each occupation, job 44
family, and authorized level shall be identified with an occupation description, job family description, 45
and level guide. Each skills management code shall be identified with a skills management code 46
description. Trie definitions of the elements of the system are as follows;
22.1(a)(1) Occupations, which are the broadest categories of work.
--
The Joint Incentive Plan Committee shall consist of up to four (4) persons representing the Company and 21
four (4) persons representing the Union. Each party shall appoint a chairperson of irs group.
Any information regarding incentive plans at Boeing will be provided at the Company's discretion 24
if the Company deems it necessary and appropriate for review. The Joint Incentive Plan Committee 25
may necessarily be required to execute a confidentiality agreemenr before such information is 26
ptovided.
The patties will jointly select and retain an independent consultant to assist in the development of 29
the incentive plan. Said consultant will be mutually agreed to by the Company and the Union. The 30
consultant's fees shall be paid by the Company.
The Joint Incentive Plan Committee shall meet as often as its members agree. The Company and rhe 33
Union Chairpersons will establish committee meeting locations, agendas and procedures. The Committee 34
will complete its work and present a joint recommendation for an incentive plan to the Union and the 35
Company by December 1, 2004. The parties undersrand that any incentive plan must have the approval 36
of the Board of Directors of the Boeing Company. Any plan agreed upon by the Committee will be 37
submitted to appropriate executive officers for review, and then to the Boeing Board of Directors at their 38
next regularly scheduled meeting.
--
40 The Company will continue its drug and alcohol awareness program designed to keep employees informed
41 of the drug and alcohol free workplace program, including opportunities for professional assistance
42 through rhe EAP, the dangers of drug and alcohol abuse, and drug and alcohol testing.
44 The Company will maintain a drug and alcohol free workplace training program for its managers, medical
45 professionals, and other selected employees. Union selected individuals, including but not limited to the
46 Union's Executive Board, Council Representatives, and staff members, will be invited to participate in
47 training. Once a year the Union will provide the Company with a list of those persons to be trained.
48 49 The Company will implement a drug and alcohol testing program designed to deter abuse and to provide 50 a means for early idenrification, referral for treatment, and rehabilitation of employees with amis'.'
51 problems. The Company will at all times comply with its policy and procedures and with applicable
52 government taws and regulations designed to safeguard the accuracy and reliability of drug and alcohol
53 testing and to protect the confidentialiry of those tested.
i
55 For reasonable suspicion and post-accident testing only, the employee has the right to request the presence
56 of a Union Representative at the collection site. The Union Representative shall not in any way interfere
44
with or otherwise obstruct the collection process. The parties agree that the collection may be delayed 1
a reasonable period, not to exceed thirty (30) minutes, to await the arrival of the Union Representative. The 2
thirty (30)-minute period will commence when the Union, to include a Union Reptescntative, is notified. 3
The Union reserves the right to grieve and arbitrate the question of whether the Company's program is 5
--
34 35 The patties enter this Letter of Understanding to establish a joint committee to oversee labor management 36 initiatives the parties undertake. These joint initiatives are intended to enhance and develop employees as 37 the Company's key resource.
38 39 The Joint Union-Company Oversight Committee shall consist of up to four (4) persons representing the 40 Company and four (4) persons representing the Union. 'ITie Company representatives will be appointed from 41 Business Unit and Human Resources management. The Union representatives will include three (3) 42 employees and the Union's Executive Director or designee. Each party shall appoint a chairperson of its group.
43 44 The Joint Oversight Committee may oversee initiatives:
--
/
--
- Progtams to provide employees the information, training, and opportunity to influence their 5
career direction.
(,
7 - A program to provide a meaningful career alternative for those employees who choose to 8
remain on a technically oriented career path (as opposed to a managerial track).
- Coordination with related activities to maximize efficiency and involve appropriate people and 11
viewpoints as required.
--
labor-management cooperative initiatives. The Company in its sole disctetion will provide administrative 28
staff and appropriate funding to support the initiatives.
30
The Joint Oversight Committee shall meet as often as its members agree, but in no event less 31
than quarterly. The Company and Union chairpersons will establish committee meeting locations, 32
agendas and procedures. To creare a proper environment for the committee's work, no aspect of 33
the committee's proceedings shall be used as the basis for, or as evidence in, any proceedings under 34
Article 3.
Dated October 25, 2004
Society of Professional Engineering
The Boeing Company
Employees in Aerospace
J fj j/ fj/J yf
By C^JotyyjA^ V^*ttA^.
By V [J \V U^T
--
A Joint Policy Board has been established, comprised of an equal number of representatives of each party. 5
Both the Company and SPEEA have appointed a representative from Wichita to the Board. In their G
participation the Wichita Representatives will consider the interests and concerns of the WTPU as well as 7
the WEU. Any additional participation by the WTPU will be as required and deemed appropriare by the 8
Board.
Ir is acknowledged that the Working Together Partnership includes allowing time during the new employee 11
orienration of all new technical and professional employees' employment for them to meet with a SPEEA 12
representative and learn about SPEEA's role in the Partnership.
Dated Octobet 25, 2004
By ( Q ^ 4 ^ -ffjMjbu
By
--
SOCIETY of PROFESSIONAL ENGINEERING EMPLOYEES in AEROSPACE
(Wichita Technical and Professional Unit)
--
HOWTO ENROLL
A. Life Insurance and Accidenral Death and Dismemberment Plans
B. Medical Plans
C. Demal Pians
D. Annual Enrollment Period
E. Special Enrollment
E Changes in Status
EFFECTIVE DATE OF COVERAGE
A. Employees
B. Dependents
COMPANY AND EMPLOYEE CONTRIBUTIONS
LIFE INSURANCE PLAN
ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT PLAN
CHANGES IN AMOUNT
OF LIFE INSURANCE BENEFIT
MEDICAL PLANS - SCHEDULE OF BENEFITS . ,
,
A. Preventive Care Services
B. Covered Medical Services and Supplies
C. Special Conditions
D. Vision Care
E. Prescription Drugs
MEDICAL PLANS - PAYMENT PROVISIONS
A, Deductibles
B, Co-payments
C, Plan Payment Levels
D, Lifetime Maximum Benefit
'-
TRADITIONAL MEDICAL PLAN
A. Description
B. Medical Review Program
C. Preventive Cire
D. Covered Medical Services and Supplies
E. Special Conditions
F. Vision Care Benefit
G. Prescription Drug Benefit
H. Traditional Medical Plan Exclusions
1, Right to Receive and Relea.se Necessary Information
A-2
A-4
A-4 A-5 A-5
A-5 A-5 A-5 A-6 A-6 .A-6 A-7
j\-8 A-S A-8
A-8
A-9
A-9 A-10 A-10 A-12 A-12 A-12
-A-12 A-12 A-14 A-15 A-2!
.A-21 A-21 A-21 A-22 A-22 A-27 A-32 A-33 A-35 A-37
12
DENTAL PLANS
(PREFERRED DENTAL PLAN AND PREPAID DENTAL PLAN)
A. Covered Services and Supplies
B. Dental Plan Exclusions
PREFERRED DENTAL PLAN
A. Description of Preferred Dental Plan
B. Plan Payment Levels
C. Maximum Benefits
A-38 A-38 A-41
A-42 A-42 A-42 A-43
PREPAID DENTAL PLAN
A-43
A. Description of Prepaid Dental Plan
B. Provider Selection
C. Plan Payment Levels and Maximum Benefits
D. Our-of-Area Emergencies
A-44
SCHEDULED DENTAL PLAN
A. Description of Scheduled Dental Plan
--
G. Limitations on Benefits
H, Scheduled Dental Plan Exclusions
.A-44 A-44 A-44 A-44 A-44 A-45 A-46 A-48 A-49
COORDINATION OF BENEFITS
A. Order of Payment
B. Traditional Medical Plan
C. Coordinated Care Plans
D. Dental Plans
.A-50 A-50 -A-51 .A-52 A-52
WHEN AN INJURY OR ILLNESS IS CAUSED
BVTHE NEGLIGENCE OF ANOTHER
.A-52
DEFINITIONS
TERMINATION OF COVERAGE
A. Life Insurance Coverage
B. Accidental Death and Dismemberment Coverage
C. Medical Coverage
D. Dental Coverage
E. Change in Eligible Class of Employment
F. Continuation of Meciical and Dental Coverage (COBRA)
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
A. Approved Medical Leaves of Absence
B. Other Approved Leaves of Absence
C. Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993
D. Uniformed Services Leave of Absence
E. Changes in Leave Types
F. Successive Periods of Leaves of Absence
-A-5B
A-58 A-58 A-58 A-59 A-59 A-59 A-59 .A-60 A-60 A-60 A-60 A-61 A-61
--
13 Dependents eligible for rhe medical and dental plans are the employee's legal spouse and children (natural
\A children, adopted children, children legally placed with the employee for adoption, and stepchildren) who
15 are under age 25, unmarried, and dependent on the employee for principal supporr, including children
16 who are attending school,
IS An employee may request coverage for the following dependents:
1. A common-law spouse if the reiarionship meets the common-law requirements for the state in
2 \.
which the employee entered into the common-law relation&hip,
2. A same-gender domestic partner if the employee and same-gender domestic partner meet all of
24
the following requirements. The employee and partner must be:
a. Of the same gender.
b. Eighteen years of age or older.
--
dental plans. The employee must complete an Affidavit of Domestic Partnership to cover
a same-gender domestic partner under the medical and dental plans.
3. Unmarried children of the employee's same-gender domestic partner who are under age 25. These
children are considered stepchildren for the purpose of the medical and dental plans. The
Affidavit of Domestic Partnership requirement applies.
4. Other children, as follows, who are under age 25, unmarried, and dependent on the employee for
principal support, including children who are attending school:
a. Children who are related ro the employee eirher direcrly or through marriage (e.g.,
grandchildren, nieces, nephews).
b. Children for whom the employee has legal custody or guardianship, or has a
pending application for legal custody or guardianship, and are living with the
employee.
55 Annual certification of eligibility is required to continue coverage for children from age 19 through
56 age 24.
In accordance with federal law, the Company also provides medical and dental coverage to certain 1
dependent children (called alternate recipients) if the Company is directed to do so by a qualified medical 2
child support ofder (QMCSO) issued by a court or state agency of competent jurisdiction.
Documentation is required to request coverage for a child named in a QMCSO, for a child for whom the 5
employee has been given legal custody ot guardianship or for a same-gender domestic partner or his or her 6
children.
A. Special Provisions When Family Members Are Boeing Employees. No person may be covered both 9
as an employee (active or retired) and as a dependent under any rype of plan offered by Boeing, and 10
no person will be considered a dependent of more than one employee. Eligible dependents do not 11
include other Boeing employees covered under any Company-sponsored plan providing medical, vision 12
care, prescriprion drug, dental, or similar services. However, if a dependent spouse is also a part-time 13
Boeing employee, the spouse and eligible dependent children are consideted eligible dependents if 14
other Boeing coverage is waived. If the employee and spouse both are Boeing employees and 15
have dependent children, the parents may elect medical and dental coverage for eligible children 16
under one parent's plans. As an alternative, parents may elect medical coverage for eligible children !7
under one parent's plan and dental coverage under the othet parenr's plan. In either case, all 18
eligible children must be enrolled in the same medical plan and the same dental plan (except as 19
required by a QMCSO). The same provisions apply to a same-gender domestic partner and his or 20
her children.
B. Incapacitated Children. A disabled child age 25 or older may continue to be eligible (or enrolled if 23
the employee is a newly-eligible employee) if he ot she is incapable of self-support due to any mental 24
or physical condition that began before age 25. The child must be unmarried and dependent on the 25
employee for principal support. Coverage may continue under the medical and dental plans for the 26
duration of the incapaciry as long as the employee continues to be eligible under the plans and the 27
child continues to meet these eligibility requirements.
Special applications for coverage are required for disabled dependent children age 25 or older.
SECTION 3
HOW TO ENROLL
A. Life Insurance and Accidental Death and Dismemberment Plans. Employees automatically are 36
enrolled in the Life Insurance and Accidental Death and Dismembetment Plans when eligible. The 37
employee may designate a beneficiary for life and accident benefits through the Boeing Service Center. 38
B. Medical Plans. In designated locations, the Company provides employees with a choice among 40
medical plans. The Traditional Medical Plan offers enhanced benefirs when a member of irs network 41
is used. Coordinated care plans also rely on selected networks of providers.
Employees receive enrollment instructions at the time of employment and may elect medical coverage 44
under one medical plan by rhe date indicated on the enrollment worksheet. All family members, 45
including the employee, must be enrolled in the same medical plan, except as specified in Section 2.A. 46
The Company provides medical coverage as follows:
1. Employees who live or work in a coordinated care plan service area may enroll in a coordinated care 50
plan or the Traditional Medical Plan.
2. Employees who do not live or work in a coordinated care plan service area may enroll in the 53
Traditional Medical Plan.
Some coordinated care plans do not offer same-gender domestic partner coverage.
A-5
3, Each employee with a spouse (or same-gender domestic partner) enrolled in a Company-sponsored
phtn must provide information regarding coverage available through another employer to determine
whether or not special contributions ate required to enroll the spouse. If the employee does
not authorize a required contriburion, the spouse will not be enrolled for medical coverage. The
employee will not be able to enroll the spouse until the earlier of:
a. The next annual enrollment period.
b. The date the spouse loses the option to be coveted under the other employer-sponsored
medical plan.
The Company will require periodic verification of data.
!4 C. Dental Plans. Employees in certain areas are offered three (3) dental plans: the Scheduled Dental
Plan, Preferred Dental Plan, and Prepaid Dental Plan. In certain areas, provider networks for the
Preferred Dental Plan and/or Prepaid Dental Plan may not be available and employees are offered only
the Scheduled Dental Plan, Employees receive enrollment instructions at the time of employment and
may elect dental coverage under one dental plan by the date indicated on the enrollment worksheet.
All family members, including the employee, must be enrolled in the same dental plan except as
specified in Section 2.A.
The Company provides dental coverage as follows:
1. The Company provides coverage under the Scheduled Dental Plan, Preferred Dental Plan, or
Prepaid Dental Plan for employees who live in a service area of the Preferred Dental Plan or
Prepaid Denral Plan.
Under the Prepaid Dental Plan, employees must select a participating provider from the
prepaid provider network. No dental benefits are payable until the employee selects a participating
provider.
2. The Company provides dental coverage under the Scheduled Dental Plan to employees who do
not live or work in a service area of the Preferred Dental Plan or Prepaid Dental Plan,
35 D. Annual Enrollment Period. The Company establishes an annual enrollment period when employees
may change medical and/or dental plans.
38 E. Special Enrollment. If an employee declines dependent enrollment in the medical and dental plans
because of other employer~sponsored health care coverage (such as through a spouse's employer), the
employee may be able to enroll eligible dependents in the Company-sponsored mediai and dental plans
during the year as long as enrollment is within sixty (60) days after other coverage ends.
If an employee declines dependent enrollment when first eligible and the dependent's other health care
coverage was through continuation coverage from a previous employer (coverage mandated by the
Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985, or COBRA), the dependent must exhaust
his of her COBRA coverage to be eligible for the special enrollment period.
If a dependent's other health care coverage was not through COBRA, the coverage loss must be due
to loss of eligibility for the health care coverage (including from divorce, death, termination of
employment, or reduction in hours of employment) or termination of employer contributions toward
such coverage.
--
13. The employee is transferred to a different division, affecting eligibility for benefirs under 46
Company-sponsored health care plans.
The employee also may change an election to comply with a qualified medical child support otder 49
(QMCSO) to provide or cancel coverage for a child resulting from a divorce, annulment, or change 50
in legal custody.
In most situations, the employee musr request enrollment within sixty (60) days after the qualified 53
event. An employee can entoll a new dependent within one hundred rwenry (120) days following the 54
employee's marriage or entering into a same-gender domestic partner relationship or a dependent 55
child's birth, adoption, or placemenr for adoption. To tequest enrollment for a new dependent more 56
A-7
than sixty (60) days but within one hundred twenty (120) days after marriage, entering into a
same-gender domestic partner relationship, birth, adoption, or placement for adoption, the employee
must call the Boeing Service Center and speak with a customer service representative. In all cases, the
employee must provide the Boeing Service Center with any required supporting documentation
within thirty-one (31) days of the date the enrollment is requested or the coverage change request will
be denied.
If the employee is enrolled in a coordinated care plan, HMO, Preferred Dental Plan, or Prepaid Dental
Plan and moves out of the service area, the employee can enroll in a plan available in the new location
by calling the Boeing Service Center.
SECTION 4
16 A. Employees. For newly hired employees, the Package becomes effective as follows.:
1, Medical and dental coverage becomes effective on the first day of the month following the
employee's first day of employment.
2. Life insurance and accidental death and dismemberment coverage becomes effective on the fust
day of the month following the employee's first day of employment, provided the employee is
actively at work on that date.
To be an eligible employee in any subsequent calendar month, the employee must be on the active
payroll on the first day of that month.
For coverage during a leave of absence, see Section 20.
An employee enrolled in medical coverage must make any required contributions.
32 B. Dependents. Current eligible dependents are covered for medical and dental benefits on the same
date the employee's coverage is effective. Eligible dependents acquired after the employee's coverage is
effective become covered on the date of marriage or entering into a same-gender domestic partner
relationship, date of birth, or date the child is legally placed with the employee for adoption, if
application is made within one hundred twenty (120) days of the event. For other newly eligible
dependents, coverage is effective on trie date dependency is established, if application is made within
sixty (60) days of the event.
The employee authorizes required contributions when enrolling eligible dependents.
--
52 The life insurance benefit is equal to two and a quarter (2-1/4) times the employee's base annual salary up
53 to a maximum benefit of $500,000. The coverage amount is rounded to the next highest $1,000 if it is not
54 already an even $ 1,000. The total amount is payable in the event of the employee's death from any cause
55 at any time or place while covered. Payment is made in a lump sum or installments to the designated
56 beneficiary. The employee may change beneficiaries any time by contacting the Boeing Service Center.
If the employee becomes permanently and rorally disabled while covered and before age 60 ftom any cause, 1
the life insurance benefit will remain in force, without cost to the employee, as long as the employee 2
remains disabled. If an employee becomes permanently and totally disabled berween ages 60 and 65, 3
the life insurance benefit will be continued without premium payment until the earlier of the employee's 4
recovery or attainment ofage 65. Proof of disability musr be furnished within rwelve (12) months of the 5
date active work ends.
The disability must have existed continuously for six (6) months and be expected to keep the employee, S
for life, from performing any work for compensation or profit,
If rbe employee recovers but does not return to wotk, all coverage terminates. The employee may then 11
convert the total amount of the life insutance benefit under the conversion of benefits provision.
13 14
SECTION 7
Accidental death and dismemberment henefits are paid if the employee's loss of life, paralysis, or loss of 18
limbs, eyesight, speech, or hearing is caused by a covered accident (including an occupational accident) that 19
occurs while the employee is covered under the Plan.
--
The full principal sum, $25,000, is paid to the beneficiary if the employee dies. This amount is in 22
addition to any amount payable under the Life Insurance Plan.
The following benefits are payable if the covered injury causes any of the following losses within 365 days 25
after the covered accident:
Loss of
Percentage of
Principal Sum
Life Quadriplegia
100%
Both Hands or Both Feet
--
CHANGES IN AMOUNT OF LIFE INSURANCE BENEFIT
38 If the employees base annual salary is changed cither upward or downward, the employee's amount of life
39 insurance benefit automatically changes. The effective date of the change in benefit is the first day of the
40 month coinciding with ot following the date the Boeing Service Center is notified of the employee's change
41 in salary. However, if the employee is not actively at work on such date, the effective date of the change in
42 benefit is the first day ofthe month coinciding with or following the employee's return to active work. Any
43 retroactive change in an employee's base annual salary is not applicable in determining the amount of life
44 insurance benefit.
SECTION 9
MEDICAL PLANS - SCHEDULE OF BENEFITS
50 In designated locations, the Company provides employees with a choice among medical plans. The
51 Traditional Medical Plan is a PPO plan that offers enhanced benefits when a member of its provider
52 network is used. Coordinated care plans and health maintenance organizations (HMOs) also rely on
53 selected networks of providers. Benefits are subject to all provisions of the selected plan, including
54 medical review requirements, maximum benefits, coordination of benefits, exclusions, and definitions. If
55 a coordinated care plan or H M O plan does not offer the negotiated plan design, the Company will
56 substitute the closest available plan design.
A-10
A. Preventive Care Services. The following preventive care services are provided according to network 1
guidelines:
3 1. Routine physical examinations for employees and spouses and routine screening examinations for 4
employees and dependents.
2. Routine well-baby and well-child care, including periodic examinations, preventive immunizations, 7
and inoculations as prescribed by a physician.
B. Covered Medical Services and Supplies. The plans provide benefits according to network guidelines 10 for the following medically necessary services and supplies required for the diagnosis and/or 11
therapeutic treatment of a non-occupational accidental injury or illness or medically necessary 12
treatment of certain listed conditions.
--
27 E. Prescription Drugs. Prescriprion drug benefits vary by network.
SECTION 10
33 Payment provisions under the plans follow.
--
--
A-12
Traditional Medical Plan
Coordinated Care Plans
I
Expenses subject
to deductibles
a. Network providers All covered expenses (except those Covered expenses are not subject 5
for network provider office, home, to deductibles. If the network p\s,n 6
or hospital outpatient visits where requires that care be received from 7
the $15 co-payment applies, (or referred by) a primary care 8
preventive care, vision care, mail physician, then care not received 9
service prescription drugs, and from (or referred by) a primary 10
smoking cessation treatment) are care physician is considered a non- 11
subject to deductibles.
network service.
b. Non-network
All covered expenses (except those All covered expenses (except 14
providers
for preventive care, vision care, those for emergency cart) are 15
mail service prescription drugs, subject to deductibles,
and smoking cessation treatment)
are subject to deductibles.
Deductible amounts
a. Individual deductible
1) Network
Each year a separate deductible No deductible applies.
applies to each covered person.
The deductible applies only once
in any year even though the
--
A-13
Family deductible (conL) 2) Non-network providers
Network deductible provisions also apply to non-network providers.
No family deductible limit applies to non-network services.
9 B. Co-payments
Traditional Medical Plan
Emergency room
A $50 emergency room A $50 emergency room
co-payment
co-payment applies to each co-payment applies ro each
hospital emergency room visit. hospital emergency room visit. If
The emergency room co-payment the patient is admitted
does not apply if the patient:
to the hospital immediately
following such tteatment, the
a) Is admitted to the hospital emergency room co-payment
--
3. Prescription drug co-payments
a. Retail Pharmacy
Covered prescriptions or refiHs A $5 co-payment applies to each
are subject to the deductibles. covered generic prescription or
The preferred pharmacy card refill obtained from a network
program provides up to a thirty- pharmacy. A $15 co-payment
four (34)-day supply,
applies to each covered brand-
name formulary prescription or
refill obtained from a network
pharmacy. A $30 co-payment
--
A-14
b, Mail service
A $10 co-payment applies to A mail service prescription drug 3
prescription drug each covered genetic prescription program may not be available in 4
program
or refdl obtained from the all coordinated care plans.
network's mail service prescription
drug program. A $30 co-payment If a program is available, a 7
applies to each covered brand- $10 co-paymenr applies to each 8
name formulary prescription or covered generic prescription 9
refill obtained from the network's or refill obtained from 10
mail service prescription drug the network's mail service 11
program. A $60 co-payment prescription drug program. A 12
applies to each covered $30 co-payment applies to each 13
brand-name non-formulary covered brand-name formulary 14
prescription or refill obtained prescription or refill obtained 15
from the network's mail service from the network's mail service 16
prescription drug program. These prescription drug program. 17
co-paymenc amounts provide A $60 co-payment applies to 18
up to a ninety (90)-day supply, each covered brand-name 19
non-formulary prescription or 20
refill obtained from the 21
network's mail service prescription 22
drug program. These co-payment 23
amounts provide up to a ninety 24
(90}-day supply.
Vision examination
A $15 co-payment applies to Varies by plan.
each covered eye examination
performed by a network provider.
--
Network hospitals
Covered services ate paid in full Covered services received from 46
when received from a network a network hospital ate paid in full. 47
hospital that meets patient safety
standards.
Covered services are paid at
ninety-five peiccot {95%) of the
allowed charge when received
from a network hospital that
does not meet patient safety
--
Plan payment levels (tout.)
2, Other network
Outpatient visits to a network Covered services of network
physician are paid in full after a. providers are paid in full (after
$15 co-payment, except as noted any applicable co-payment)
in Section 11.B.2.+
except when provided for the
treatment of substance abuse,
Other covered services of mental illness, or TMJ/MPDS.
--
A-16
Plan payment levels (cont.)
b. Other covered
Covered services are paid at Coveted services must be 4
health rare
eighty percent (80%) of usual approved by the plan; payment 5
providers, services and customary charges. *
levels vary depending on the 6
and supplies
situation.
furnished by
providers nor in
a license category
--
Treatment of mental
iHnevi (cant.)
c. Treatment not
Covered services for treatment Covered services for treatment
coordinated
of mental illness ire paid at of mental illness are paid at a
through the
a constant fifty percent (50%) constant fifty percent (50%) of
network's
of usual and customary charges usual and customary charges to
referral service
--
12. Preventive care a. Network providers
b. Non-network providers
13. Vision care 14, Prescription drugs
a. Network 1) Generic
2) Brand-name formulary
3) Brand-name non-formulary
Mail service prescription drug program I) Generic
]
Covered services are paid in Varies by plan.
full; covered routine physical
examinations for employees and
spouses ate paid up lo $200 per
examination, including related
laboratory and X-ray charges.
No coverage for services obtained Varies by plan.
in a network service area.
--
A mail service prescription drug 47
program may not be available in 48
all coordinated care plans.
Covered generic prescriptions or Covered generic prescriptions or 51
refills obtained from the network's refills obtained from the network's 52
mail service prescription drug mail service prescription drug 53
program are paid in full after program are paid in full after 54
required co-payments, up to a required co-payments, up to a 55
ninety (90)-day supply.
ninery {90)-day supply.
%
A-19
Mail service prescription
dntgprogram (cont.)
2) Brand-name Covered brand-name formulary Covered brand-name formulary
formulary
prescriptions or refills obtained prescriptions or refills obtained
from the network's mail service from the network's mail service
prescription drug program are paid prescription drug program are paid
in fill! after required co-payments, in full after required co-payments,
up to a ninety (90)-day supply.
up to a ninety (90}-day supply.
3} Brand-name Covered brand-name non- Covered brand-name non-
non-formulary formulary prescriptions or refills formulary prescriptions or refills
obtained from the network's mail obtained from the network's mail
service prescription drug program service prescription drug
are paid in full after required program are paid in full after
co-payments, up to a ninety (90)- required co-payments, up to a
day supply.
15- Out-of-pocket
expense limits
a. Network
Network services are subject to Not applicable.
the same limits described below
fot non-network services.
--
A-20
. ,,. ..
Expenses that do
5) Any balance remaining after
not count toward the
a benefit maximum has been
individual or family
reached,
out-of-pocket expense
6) Covered medical services
limits (cont.)
-
paid at one hundred percent
--
The lifetime maximum benefit for all covered medical services (including prescription drugs) is 23
J 1,500,000, subject to all other medical plan provisions. This maximum applies separately to each 24
covered family member. Benefits paid and applied to reduce the maximum benefit, while covered 25
under a Company-sponsored plan for active or retired personnel and not reinstated under a prior 26
agreement, are not reinstated by this agreement and serve to reduce the maximum benefits available 27
hereunder.
SECTION 11
Payment provisions are described in Section 10, except as noted under the vision care benefit.
A, Description
The Traditional Medical Plan provides benefits for procedures, services, and supplies medically 37
necessary for the diagnosis and/or therapeutic treatment of non-occupational accidental injuries or 38
illnesses and treatment of certain listed conditions.
Enhanced benefits are available to employees who receive care from network providers as described 41
in Section 10. Preventive care, prescription drug, and vision care benefits also are included in the Plan. 42
The Traditional Medical Plan has a medical review program to encourage appropriate utilization of health 46
care services. The program includes precertificaiion requirements, voluntary second surgical opinion 47
provisions, a referral service (or mental illness and substance abuse treatment, and individual case management. 48
t. Precertification requirements.
The employee is responsible for obtaining precertificaiion for all non-emergency hospital 52
admissions (except admissions for childbirth during the first forty-eight (48) hours following a 53
normal delivery or ninety-six (96) hours following a cesarean section), skilled nursing facility 54
admissions, and services for home health care and hospice care. Treatment of substance abuse md 55
mental illness must be precertifted through the referral service.
A-21
a. If the medical review program is not contacted, but retrospective review shows that the
hospital or skilled nursing facility admission, home health care, or hospice care was medically
necessary, regular Plan benefirs are reduced to fifty (50%) percent of usual and customary
--
The Traditional Medical Plan provides benefits for the following procedures, services, and supplies
medically necessary for the diagnosis and/or therapeutic treatment of non-occupational accidental
A-22
injuries or illnesses and treatment of certain listed conditions. Benefits for special conditions are 1
specified in Section 1 I.E.
1. The services of a physician, including:
a. A voluntary second (or third) surgical opinion obtained from one (1) or two (2) other 6
specialists.
h
b. An eye examination including refraction performed in conjunction with a medical condition 9
such as diabetes, glaucoma, and cataracts. (See Section U.F for routine eye examination 10
coverage.)
--
serum, and insulin are covered under the preferred pharmacy card program; insulin also is 17
covered under the mail service prescription drug program.
2. Services of other health care professionals.
a. Diagnostic X-ray and laboratory exarainarions, including examinations incurred in connection 22
with a second (or third) surgical opinion.
b. Intermittent visits of a registered nurse (R.N.), other than a nurse who ordinarily lives in the 25
employee's home or who is a fam ily member of the employee or spouse, if skilled care in place 26
of hospitalization is not available through an alternative provider at a lesser cost.
c. The services of a physician's assistant for services that would have been covered if performed 29
by a physician licensed as a doctor of medicine (M.D.).
d. The services of a physical therapist for physical thetapy (but not other types of therapy), the 32
services of an occupational therapist for occupational therapy, and the services of a speech 33
--
b. The cost and installation of a hearing aid or aids purchased under a phyiician'i or certified audiologist's written recommendation, to a $600 benefit payable for each hearing aid. This benefit is limired to one (1) per ear every three (3) consecutive years, including any period covered under a Company-sponsoredplan. The Plan also covers the overhaul of a hearing aid in place of a new hearing aid after three (3} years.
No benefits are payable for:
1) Hearing or audiometric examinations. (When disease is present, such expenses may be covered under other portions of the Traditional Medical Plan,)
2) Hearing aids ordered either before the person became eligible or after coverage ends.
3) Hearing aids ordered before coverage ends but delivered more than sixty (60) days after coverage ends.
4) Charges for hearing aids that do not meet professionally accepted standards of pracrice or for experimental or investigational services or supplies.
5) Replacement of hearing aids that are lost, broken, or stolen unless replacement is within the frequency limit of one (1) hearing aid per ear every three (3) consecutive years.
6) Replacement parts for hearing aid repairs, unless part of an overhaul after three (3) years.
7) Replacement batteries.
8) Charges for eyeglass'type hearing aids above the covered expense for one (1) hearing aid.
c. Hemodialysis in the patient's home when the treatment is repetitive and for chronic, irreversible kidney disease. Covered services and supplies include the rental, lease, or (under certain conditions) purchase of major hemodialysis equipment and specific supplies and certain training necessary to operate the dialyzer. Purchase of specific supplies is contingent on the supplies having no real utility to the patient in the absence of the disease and having no value to other household members. Coverage of the purchase of equipment is subject to specific conditions, including an amortization period, decided by the service representative.
A-24
d. Rental (or purchase if approved by the service representative) of durable medical or surgical 1
equipment used exclusively foT the patient's therapeutic treatment.
e. Orthopedic appliances and braces, including repair and replacement necessary as a result of 4
normal usage or change in condition.
f. Oxygen and anesthesia.
g. Artificial limbs, artificial eyes, and other prostheses. This benefit includes repair and replacement 9
necessary as a result of normal usage or change in condition.
--
for inpatient services; vitamins, minerals, or other supplemenrs; acupuncture; 18
over-the-counter drugs or /troiWfr-prescribed prescription drugs to ease nicotine 19
withdrawal; books; tapes; or hypnotherapy (unless performed by an approved provider). 20
Prescription drugs prescribed by an approved provider to ease nicotine withdrawal are 21
covered under the prescriprion drug benefit.
Hospital room, board, services, and supplies, including a medically necessary private room. If a 24
private room is used when one is not medically necessary, any excess of daily board and room 25
charges over the hospitals average semi-private room charge is not covered. If rhe hospital does not 26
have semi-private accommodations, the semi-privace charge for similar facilities in the area is 27
considered in determining the rate.
Hospital benefits are subject to the medical review program for medical necessity, appropriateness, 30
level of care, and setring,
Hospital alternatives.
a. Home health care visits and supplies provided to patients in their home by a home health care 35
agency instead of confinement in a hospital or skilled nursingfacility.
--
b) A physician must establish a written home health care treatment plan.
c) The patient must be homebound, which means leaving home involves a 47
considerable, taxing effort and the patient is unable to use public transportation 48
without assistance.
2) Covered benefits for home health care visits and supplies must be provided by and billed 51
by the home health care agency and are limited to;
a) Physician services.
b) Nursing visits by a registered nurse (R.N.) or licensed practical nurse (LPN.).
A-25
c) Physical therapy visits by a physical therapist.
d) Speech therapy visits by a speech therapist.
e) Occupational thetapy visits by an occupational therapist.
f) Medical social visits by a person with a master's degree in social work (M.S.W.).
g) Home health aide visits.
--
Benefits ate provided for the foilowing services in connection with the diagnosis aitd treatment of infertility: a. Diagnostic tests necessary to determine the cause of infertility. b. Surgical correction of a condition causing or contributing to infertility.
c. Conventional medical treatmenrs (such as office visits, laboratory services, and prescriprion medications) of the infertility.
The Plan does not cover the infertility services And supplies listed under "Traditional Medical Plan" Exclusions in Section 1 l.H.
Mental illness and substance abuse treatment.
a. Mental illness. Benefits are provided for the services of the following providers in connection with the inpatient and outpatient treatment of mental illness:
1) Any provider contracted with the referral service.
2) Licensed psychiatric doctor (M.D.).
3) Licensed clinical psychologist.
4) Licensed psychiatric nurse (R.N.). 5) Professional at master's level or above whom is licensed in the area where the services are
performed. 6) Licensed hospital or treatment facility.
Trcatmenr of a mental illness includes only treatmenr of a mental disorder or condition not relared ro, accompanying, or resulting from substance abuse. Treatment of any such related, accompanying, or resulting disorder or condition is considered to be treatment of the substance abuse.
A-28
b. Substance abuse.
Expenses incurred at a substance abuse treatment facility or a hospital, including physician's 3
charges and charges for prescription drugs, are covered only to the extent they are in 4
connection with the effective treatment of substance abuse. The benefit at a substance abuse 5
treatment facility is limited to intensive inpatient treatment and outpatient substance abuse 6
counseling as prescribed by a physician.
No benefits are provided for recovery houses that provide an alcohol- or drug-free residential 9
setting; alcohol or drug information and referral services; schools; emergency service patrols; 10
or detoxification, except when immediately followed by a rehabilitative program.
12 The patient must complete the course of treatment to be eligible for substance abuse benefits. 13
Oral sutgery.
a. Benefits are provided only to the extent not covered in the dental plans for services in 17 connection with the prompt repair of natural teeth or other body tissue performed by a 18
physician or dentist and required as a result of a non-occupational injury, provided that:
1) The damaged, lost, or moved teeth were free from decay or in good repair and firmly 21
attached to the jaw bone at the time of the injury, and
2) If crowns (caps), denmres (false teeth), bridgeworlt (fixed or removable), or in-mouth 24 appliances are installed due to such injury, only charges for the first denture or 25
bridgewDrk to replace lost teeth, the first crown needed to repair each damaged tooth, 26 and an in-mouth appliance used in the first course of orthodontic therapy after the 27
injury are included.
Charges to remove, repair, replace, resrore, or reposirion teeth lost or damaged while biting 30
or chewing are not covered.
b. Benefits are provided for medically necessary services in connection with oral surgery 33 performed by a physician or dentist for a medical condition that does not relate to the 34
correction of the gum, teeth, or mouth tissues for dental purposes, excepr where covered 35
under the dental plans. These services include, but are not restricted to;
1) Removal of tumors and cysts of the jaw, cheeks, lips, tongue, and roof and floor of the mouth. 38 39
2) Surgical procedures required to correcr accidental injuries of the jaw, cheeks, lips, 40
tongue, and roof and floor of the mouth.
3) Removal of exostoses of the jaw and hard palate.
4) Treatment for fractures of the facial bones (maxilla or mandible).
5) Incision and drainage of cellulitis.
6) Incision of accessory sinuses, salivary glands, or ducts.
c. Benefits are provided for physician or dentist services in connection with the correction 51
--
5) Appliance management, kioesitherapy, physical therapy, biofeedback therapy, joint 10
manipulation, prescription drugs, injections of muscle relaxants, and therapeutic drugs 11
or agents.
b. The following expenses are not covered:
1) Restorative techniques to build occlusion unless the tooth is diseased or accidentally 16
damaged.
2) Non-surgical orthodontic treatment, except as provided above.
3) Banding treatment.
Transplant benefits.
Benefits are provided for medically necessary services relating to a covered transplant. Transplants 25
--
Vision care benefits are not subject to the Traditional Medical Plan annual deductible, out-of-pocket
expense limits, plan payment levels, or lifetime maximum benefit,
1. Covered vision care expenses are charges (to the amounts shown in the Schedule of Covered
Vision Care Expenses) for the following:
a. A complete eye examination of visual function, performed by a legally qualified ophthalmologist
or optometrist.
b. Prescribed lenses.
c. Contact lenses if elected in place of conventional lenses and frames.
--
time coveted under a Ccmpany-spomored medical plan. Any replacement of lost, stolen, or
broken lenses and/or frames is included under the two (2)-set limit.
26"
SCHEDULE OF COVERED VISION CARE EXPENSES
Services and
Maximum
Supplies
Covered Expense
Eye examination
Paid in full after
$ 15 co-payment for
--
All other vision care expenses are not covered under this benefit, but may be covered as a medical 5
condition under the Traditional Medical Plan.
2. The following vision care expenses are not covered:
a. Special supplies, such as non-prescription sunglasses and subnormal vision aids,
b. Orthoptics or vision training and any associated supplemental testing.
--
, 34
Benefits are subject to all Traditional Medical Plan provisions, including exclusions.
1. Preferred pharmacy card program.
a. Description of benefit.
Employees and dependents may obtain covered prescription drugs through the preferred 43
pharmacy card program or through any licensed pharmacist
b. Covered prescriprion drug expenses.
The Plan covers the following medically necessary prescription drug expenses:
1) Legend drug, which must be dispensed under federal or state law through the written 50
prescription of a physician or dentist.
2) Injectable insulin (including needles, syringes, chem strips, chem pads and lancets when 53
ptescribed along with insulin) when ordered in writing by the patient's physician.
3) Antigen or allergy serum prescribed by a physician in writing.
A-33
The Plan also covers prescribed legend drugs for contraception and smoking cessation.
However, any drug labeled "Caution - Limited by Federal Law to Investigational Use" or any experimental drug, even though a charge is made to the patient, is not a covered prescription expense.
c. Maximum medication covered.
The program covers a supply of medication which, when taken according to the physician's written order, does not exceed a thirty-four {34)-day supply.
Mail service prescription drug program.
Employees and eligible dependents may use the mail service prescription drug program to obtain covered prescription drugs.
Unless the physician indicates otherwise, a generic equivalent of the prescribed drug will be dispensed when available and permissible under the law.
b. Covered prescription drug expenses.
1) Legend drugs, which must be dispensed under federal or state law through the wrirten prescription of a physician or dentist.
2) Injectable insulin (including needles, syringes, chem strips, chem pads and lancets when prescribed along with insulin) when ordered in writing by the patients physician,
The Plan also covers prescribed legend drugs for contraception and smoking cessation.
The program covers a supply of medicarion which, when taken according to rhe physician's written order, does not exceed a ninery (90)-day supply per prescription or refill. Authorized refills are covered only after the initial substance has been used. Certain controlled substances are subject to quantity limitations.
Exclusions.
No benefits are payable under the prescriprion drug programs for the fallowing:
a. Appliances, devices, or other nondrug items, including but not limited to therapeutic devices or artificial appliances. However, rhis does not apply to needles, syringes, or other diabetic supplies when prescribed aSong with insulin.
b. Any charges for the administration or injecrion of any drug.
c. Any prescription for which the person is eligible to receive benefits under another employer's group benefit plan or a workers' compensation law or from any municipality, state, or federal program.
d. Any prescription filled in excess of the number prescribed by the physician or any refill after one (1) year from the date of the physician's order.
A-34
e. Immunizing agents, except that allergy serum (antigen) is covered under the prescription 1
drug card program with a physician's written prescription.
f. All medications to treat sexual dysfunction, unless the patient is being treated for a diagnosed 4
medical condition.
g. Fertility agents, unless approved by the service representative.
h. Obesity drugs.
--
These charges are deducted from the eligible person's expenses before the benefirs of this Plan are 27
determined. The Plan does not pay for charges for or related to:
1. Any accident or illness covered by a workers' compensation law.
2. Services or supplies not recommended and approved by a physician or other covered health care 32
professional or provided before the person becomes covered under this Plan,
3. Services Of supplies that the Plan's service representative determines are not medically necessary for 35
treatment of an accidental injury, illness, or other condition covered under the Plan. This includes 36
routine physical examinations, immunizations, or other prevenrive services and supplies, except as 37
specifically provided by the Plan.
Inpatient hospital care (including physician visits while hospitalized) is not considered medically 40
--
medical coverage when such contract or insurance is issued to or provides benefits available to the
patient. Any benefits paid by this Plan before benefits are paid under one of these other types of
conttacts or insurance are provided to assist the patient and do not indicate the service representative
is acting as a volunteer ot waiving any right to reimbursement or subrogation,
17. Experimental or investigational services or supplies, or related complications.
18. Services or supplies related to treatment of mental illness, including eating disorders, or substance
abuse, except as specifically ptovided.
19. Services or supplies related to treatment of TMJ and MPDS, except as specifically provided.
20. Smoking cessation treatment, except as specifically provided.
--
29. Missed appoinrmenrs.
30. Equipment or supplies that are nor solely related to rhe medical care of a diagnosed illness or 18
injury. Examples include, but are not limited to, any luxury or convenience irem or supply, 19
general exercise equipment, modification to home (e.g., wheelchair ramps, supporr railings) or 20
automobile or van (e.g., ramps, lifrs), environmental control devices (e.g., air conditioners, 21
purifiers, humidifiers), swimming pool, spa or whirlpool, Craftmatic or similar bed, orthopedic 22
chair, special car seat, or any personal hygiene item.
31. The following home health care and hospice services;
a. Homemaker or housekeeping services.
b. Services provided by volunteers, household members, family, or friends.
c. Unnecessary or inappropriate services, food, clothing, housing, or transportation,
d. Social services.
--
g. Supplies or services not included in the written home health or hospice care treatment plan or 39
not otherwise covered.
h. Hospice services to other family members, inducting bereavement counseling.
i. Hospice services of financial, legal, or spiritual counselors.
Right to Receive and Release Necessity Information
As a condition of receiving benefits under this Plan, the patient agrees to authorize:
1. Any physician, hospital, or other provider or parry having knowledge ro disclose to the service 50
representative any medical information requested to administer this Plan.
2. The service representative to:
--
31 A. Covered Services and Supplies
The following services and supplies are covered under both the Preferred Dental Plan and the Prepaid
Dental Plan to the specified limits. The plans pay for covered services only if those services are
performed by or under the direction of a licensed dentist or other plan-approved licensed professional.
A licensed dentist docs not mean a dental mechanic or any Dther type of dental technician. Coverage
is subject to the benefit payment levels, exclusions, and other provisions of each dental plan.
1. Diagnostic.
Routine examinations, X-rays, emergency examinations, and examinations by specialists in an
American Dental Association recognized specialty.
Examinations are covered once in a six (6)-month period. Charges to review a proposed
treatment plan or for case presentation by the attending dentist we not covered. Complete mouth
or panorex X-rays are covered once in a five (5)-year period. Supplementary bitewing X-rays
are covered once in a twelve (12)-month period. Study and diagnostic models and decay
susceptibility tests are not covered.
--
A-39
Surgical and non-surgical procedures for treatment of the tissues supporting the teeth. These include root planing, subgingival curettage, gingivectomy, and limited adjustments to occlusion (eight (8) teeth or fewer) such as smoothing of teeth or reducing cusps.
Periodontal splinting and/or crown and bridgework used in conjunction with periodontal splinting are not covered. Root planing or subgingival curettage (but not both) are covered once in a twelve (12)-month period. Major (complete) occlusal adjustment and periodontal appliances are not covered.
Endodontics.
Procedures for pulpal and root canal therapy. Covered services include pulp exposure treatment, pulpotomy, and apicoectomy.
Root canal treatment on the same tooth is covered only once in a two (2)-year period.
Pedodontics.
Space maintained when used to maintain space for eruption of permanent teeth.
Replacement of a space maintainor previously paid for by the participating plan is not covered.
Prosthodontics.
Dentures, bridges, partial dentures, and related items and adjustment or repair of an existing prosthetic device.
Replacement of an existing ptosthetic device is covered only if it is unserviceable and cannot be made serviceable. Services necessary to make the device serviceable are covered. Prosthetic devices are covered only five (5) years after any prior device was paid for under these plans.
a. Full, immediate, and overdentures.
If personalized restorations or specialized treatments are used, the Plan pays the appropriate amount for a full, immediate, or overdenture toward the cost of this treatment. Root canal therapy performed in conjunction with overdentures is limited to two (2) teeth pet arch. Temporary dentures are not covered.
b. Partial dentures.
If a more elaborate or precision device is used to restore the case, the Plan pays for a cast chrome and acrylic partial denture (applied toward the cost of any other procedure).
c. Denture adjustments and relines.
Denture adjustments and relines done more than six (6) months after initial placement are covered. Subsequent relines or jump rcbases (not both) are covered once in a twelve (12)-month period.
d. Implants.
The Plan pays the appropriare amount for a full Of partial denture, applied toward appliances constructed on the implant. If the plan makes an allowance toward the cost of such appliances, it will not cover any replacemenr for five (5) years.
A-40
Duplicate dentures, cleaning of prosthetic appliances, temporary dentures, surgical placement 1
or removal of implants or attachments to implants, or crowns and copings in conjunction 2
with overdentures are not covered.
9. Orthodontics.
Correction or prevention of malocclusion. Under the Preferred Dental Plan only, occlusal guards 7
for bruxism are covered.
Any services or supplies for orthodontic treatment (straightening of teeth) including correction or 10
prevention of malocclusion, except as specifically provided as orthodontic care, are not covered. 11
10. General anesthesia.
a. General anesthesia is covered when medically necessary and administered by a dentist in 15
connection with a covered oral, endodontic, or periodontal surgical procedure.
b. (Prepaid Dental Plan only) General anesthesia is covered when medically necessary for 18
children through age six (6) and younger or for a physically or developmentally disabled 19
person when administered in connection with a covered dental procedure.
The plans will not pay for charges for or related to:
1. Services payable under workers' compensation or employers' liability laws of any federal or state 26
or provincial governmenr agency or provided free to the eligible person by any similar agency, 27
except to the extent that these payments are insufficient to pay for covered dental benefits.
2. Procedures, appliances, or restorations primarily for cosmetic purposes, including laminates or 30
bleaching of teeth.
3. Any charge incurred while not covered under a Company-sponsored plan; however,
a. Where the covered dental benefit was noted by the dentist as required before the employee 35
terminated employment (unless the benefit was subject to the predetermination procedure 36
and was submitted to the service representative), services are covered if performed during the 37
--
partial denture, are covered if denrure impressions were taken while the employee was actively 41
employed and coveted under these dental plans and were installed or delivered within the three 42
(3) calendar months after termination of the employee's employment. Charges are not covered 43
if denture impressions were taken before coverage began or after the date the employee 44
Terminated employment, unless they meet the requirements of subsection a. above.
c. Charges in connection wirh a ernwn required TO restore a tooth (independent of the use of 47
the crown in connection, with a partial denture) are covered if the tooth was prepared for the 48
crown while the person was eligible or the crown was installed in accordance with subsection 49
a. above.
d. Charges in connection with covered orthodontic treatment are covered if performed during 52
the three (3) calendar months after termination of the employee's employment
4. Analgesics (such as nitrous oxide or intravenous sedation) or any other euphoric drugs, injections, 55
or prescription drugs.
A-41
5. Hospitalization charges.
6. Full-mouth reconstruction (extensive treatment plans involving ten (10) or more crowns or units
of fixed bridgework).
7. Failure to keep a scheduled dental appointment.
8. All other services not specified as covered dental benefits or not specifically included in this
program.
II
9. Covered dental benefits for orthodontic care over the $2,000 lifetime maximum benefit for each
eligible person.
10. Application of desensitizing medications.
11. Experimenral dental services or supplies (and related complications) whose use is not generally
recognized by the American Dental Association as tested and accepred dental practice. This
exclusion also applies to items requiring Food and Drug Administration or other governmental
--
18. (Prepaid Dental Plan only) Removable partial bridges are covered only if replacing rwo (2)
or more missing teeth in the same atch. Fixed bridges to replace missing teeth are considered
optional treatment; the patient is responsible for the difference in cost between the dentist's
allowable fees for the covered removable bridge benefit and the fixed bridge. Replacement of
an exact existing fixed bridge is covered only if rhe existing bridge is at least five (5) ycats old
and cannot be made serviceable.
SECTION 13
45 A. Description of Preferred Dental Plan
Under the Preferred Dental Plan, employees and eligible dependents may receive denral care from any
licensed dentist. However, benefits are paid ar a higher level if the services are received from a network
provider. Network providers have agreed to bill the Plan's service representative direcrly, eliminating the
need for claim forms.
52 B, Plan Payment Levels
The Plan pays for covered services and supplies as follows:
1. Services and supplies received from network providers.
A-42
a. Diagnostic and preventive services and supplies are paid at ninety (90%) percent of 1
charges.
--
The Prepaid Dental Plan offers complete dental care to employees and eiigible dependents by a 38
network of participating providers.
Employees must select a participating provider at enrollment. All covered dental services, except 43
orthodontic and our-of-area emergency care, are provided to the employee and eligible dependents 44
by this selected provider.
Employees wishing to transfer to inothet participating provider must contact the service representative. 47
An approved transfer is effective the first day of the month following receipt of the change request by 48
the service representative, if received by the 25th of the month,
Orthodontic care may be obtained from any licensed dentist.
--
26 A. Description of Scheduled Dental Plan
The Scheduled Denra) Plan pays for covered expenses, to the maximum amounts listed in the
Schedule of Coveted Dental Services (Section 15.E), in connection with the prevention, diagnosis, ot
treatment of dental disease or treatment of a non-occupational accidental injur}-.
3S
32 B. Prvvider Selection
Employees and eligible dependents may receive dental care from any licensed dentist. They also may
receive Covered prosthodontic services from any licensed denturist.
37 C. Deductibles
Deductibles ate expenses for certain Covered services and supplies that the employee or dependent must
--
consistent with those listed in the schedule. In no event wil! an allowance for an unlisted service 50
be made for a procedure covered by the Medical Plan.
5!
E. Maximum Benefits
Except for orthodontic treatment, the maximum benefit payable for all dental services is $2,000 for 55
each eligible person each year.
A-45
)
For orthodontic treatment, the lifetime maximam benefit payable during all periods the eligible
person is covered under this Flan is $2,000.
3 4 E Schedule of Covered Dental Services
o
ADA Code
Maximum Covered Expense
--
47 if two (2) or more dental services arc rendered, payment wiii be made, subject to the provisions of the
48 Scheduled Dental Plan, for each dental service unless rhe Schedule of Covered Dental Services specifies a
49 maximum amount for a particular combination of the services rendered.
51 G. Limitations on Benefits
Covered dencal services do not include and no benefits are payable for;
J. Charges for treatment by other than a dtntist. However, this Plan will cover certain treatment by
a licensed dental hygienist if the treatment is supervised by a dentist. The term dentist means a
A-48
legally qualified demist practicing within the scope of such license. For the purposes of this Plan, 1
the term dentist also includes a legally qualified physician authorized by license to perform the 2
particular dental services that such person has rendered.
2. Charges for services or supplies that are partially or wholly cosmetic in nature, including charges 5
for personalization or characterization of dentures.
--
H. Scheduled Dental Plan Exclusions
No benefirs are payable under this Plan for the charges listed below: the amount of any such charges 51
will be deducted from the patient's expenses before the covered dental expenses are used to satisfy the 52
deductible or before the benefits of this Plan are determined:
1. Charges that would not have been made if this Plan did not exist or charges that neither the 55
employee nor any of the dependents of the employee is required to pay.
A-49
2. Charges for services or supplies that are furnished or paid for by reason of the past or present
service of any person in the armed forces of a government.
3. Chatges for services or supplies that are paid for or otherwise provided for under any law of a
government, except where the payments or the benefits are provided by the government for its
--
19 If an employee or dependent has medical, dental, or other health coverage in addition to being covered
20 under these medical and dental plans, the following rules govern coordination of benefits with the other
21 coverage. Other coverage includes, whether insured or uninsured, another employer's group benefit plan,
22 other arrangement of individuals in a group, Medicare (to the extent allowed bylaw), individual insutance
23 or heakh coverage, and insurance that pays without consideration of fault.
25 The service representative has the right to obtain and release any information or recover any payment it
26 considers necessary to administer these provisions.
28 The exclusion of government benefits and services is described in "Medical Plan Exclusions" in Section 11 .H.,
29 in "Dental Plan Exclusions" in Section 12.B., and in "Scheduled Dental Plan Exclusions" in Section 15.H.
31 A. Order of Payment
The primary plan pays its benefits first and pays its benefits without regard to benefits that may be
payable undet other plans. When another plan is the primary plan for health care coverage, the
secondary plan pays the difference between ihe benefits paid by the primary plan and what would have
been paid had the secondary plan been primary.
I. A plan is considered primary if:
a. It has no order of benefit determination rules.
b. Ir has benefit determination rules rbar differ from coordination of benefit rules under srate
--
d. If a dependent child's parents are divorced or separated and a coutt decree establishes 6
financial responsibility for the health care coverage oi~ the child, the plan of the parent with 7
such financial responsibility is the primary plan of coverage. If the divorce decree is silent on
the issue of coverage, the following guidelines are used:
1) The plan of the parent with custody pays benefits
first.
2) The plan af the spouse of the paretic with custody pays second.
3) The plan of the parent without custody pays third.
4) The plan of the spouse of the parent without custody pays fourth.
e. If none of the aforementioned rules establishes which group plan should pay first, then the 19
plan that has covered the person for the longest period is considered the primary plan of 20
coverage.
--
Benefits under a Company-sponsoredmedical or dental plan are not coordinated with benefits paid 31
under any other group plan offered by the Company. An employee can receive benefits from only 32
one (!) Company-sponsored medical or dental plan. Howevet, when dental services performed by 33
a licensed dentist also are covered under the medical plan, the dental plan pays its benefits first 34
and the medical plan is secondary.
Federal rules govern coordination of benefits with Medicare. In most cases. Medicare is 37
secondary to a plan that covers a person as an active employee or dependent of an active 38
employee. Medicate is primary in mosr other circumstances.
B, Traditional Medical Plan
The primary plan pays benefits without regard to any other plan. When the Traditional 43
Medical Plan is secondary, it adjusts benefits so that the total payable under both plans 44
for expenses covered under the Traditional Medical Plan is not more than would be payable 45
under the Traditional Medical Plan. Neither plan pays more than it would without coordination 46
of benefits,
Plan means any plan providing medical, dental, vision care, hearing aid benefits, or treatment under 49
individual insurance, group insurance, or any other coverage for individuals in a group, whether on 50
an insured or uninsured basis.
Treatment of end-stage renal disease is covered by the Traditional Medical Plan for the first thitty (30) 53
months following Medicare entitlement due to end-stage renal disease, and Medicare provides 54
secondary coverage. After this thirty (30)-month period, Medicare provides primary coverage and the 55
Traditional Medical Plan provides secondary coverage,
A-51
t C. Coordinated Care Plans
Coordination of benefit provisions vary by plan.
5 D. Dental Plans
Benefits payable under the Scheduled Dental Plan, Preferred Dental Plan, and Prepaid Dental Plan
take into account any coverage (including orthodontic coverage) the employee of family members
have under another plan.
Plan means any plan providing medical, dental, vision care, hearing aid benefits, or treatment under
group insurance or any other coverage for individuals in a group, whether on an insured or uninsured
basis. However, plan excludes any medical plan sponsored by the Company. This means the dental
plans pay first when dental expenses performed by a dentist also are covered by any medical plan
sponsored by the Company.
The dental plans always pay regular benefits in full or a reduced amount that, when added to benefits
payable by another plan, equals one hundred (100%) percent of allowable expenses.
Allowable expense means any charge, up to the maximum allowable fees incurred during a year and
while eligible for benefits under the Scheduled Dental Plan, Preferred Dental Plan, or Prepaid Dental
Plan part or all of which would be covered under any of the plans.
No benefits are payable under this ptovision unless the charges were incurred in connection with a
dental service or treatment,
SECTION J 7
WHEN AN INJ URY OR ILLNESS IS CAUSED BY THE NEGLIGENCE OF ANOTHER
31 If a third parry is legally liable for an injury or illness ro a petson covered under these medical and dental
32 plans, regular plan benefits will be paid if the injured person agrees to cooperate with the service
33 representative in administering the plan's subrogation rights. This includes providing all the necessary and
34 requested informatiun and submitting bills related to the injury or illness to any applicable insurer. The
35 injured person also must agree to reimbutsc the plan if he or she recovers payment from the liable party or
36 any other source. A third party includes any party possibly responsible for causing or compensating the
--
2. Allowed charge (Traditional Medical Plan, including prefetred pharmacy' card program) means
the amount chat would have been paid for like services or supplies to a network provider or
participating pharmacy who has a participation agreement with the service representative.
3. Birthing center means a facility for normal delivery operating undet the direction and conttol of
che licensing or regulatory agency in its location.
A-52
4. Chiropractor means a person duly licensed in the area where his or her services are performed and 1
practicing within the scope of that iicense.
5. Christian Science sanatorium means a facility that, at the time of the healing treatment, is operated 4
(or listed) and certified by the First Church of Christ, Scientist, in Boston, Massachusetts,
6. Company-sponsored plan means a group health care or dentai plan approved by Boeing or one of 7
its subsidiaries or affiliates for its employees and dependents. This includes the Traditional 8
Medical. Plan, coordinated care plans, health maintenance organizations, Preferred Denta! Plan, 9
Prepaid Dental Plan, and Scheduled Dental Plan.
7. Custodial care means care that does not require the continuing services of skilled medical or 12
health professionals and is primarily to assist patients in activities of daily living, including 13
institutional care primarily to support self-care and provide room and board. Custodial care 14
includes, but is not limited to, help in walking, getting into and out of bed, bathing, dressing, 15
feeding and preparation of special diets, and supervision of medications that are ordinarily 16
self-administered.
8. Dentist means a legally-qualified dentist practicing within the scope of his or her license.
9. Experimental or investigational service or supply means:
a. A service or supply that meets at least one of the following criteria;
1} It requires approval by the Food and Drug Administration or other government agency, 25
which approval has not been granted when the service or supply is ordered.
2) It has been classified by the national Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association as 28
experimental or investigational,
3) It is under clinical investigation by health professionals.
4) It is not generally recognized by the medical profession as tested and accepted medical 33
practice.
b. However, a service or supply will not be considered experimental or investigational if it is part 36
of an approved clinical trial. An approved clinical trial is one that meets each of the criteria 37
in either Category 1 or 2 below.
1) Category 1
a) The trial has been approved by the National Institutes of Health, the Food and 42
Drug Administration, the Department of Veterans Affairs, or a research center 43
--
14. Home health for holp'Ce) care treatment plan means a written program for continued care and
Treatment by the patient's attending physician. This plan must be reviewed and the continued
need for care must be certified by a physktan it least every two (2) months.
15- Hospice agency means a public or private organization that administers and provides hospice care
and is either Medicare certified or operating under the direction and control of the licensing or
regulatory agency in its location.
16. Hospital means an accredited institution licensed by the Joint Commission on Accreditation of
Healthcare Organizations (JCAHO) as a general hospital.
17, Legend drug means any drug that is required by Federal law to be labeled "Caution: Federal law
--
18, Mail service prescription drug program means a mail service prescription company approved by the
service representative to provide services under an arrangement with the service representative.
19. Maximum allowable fee (Dental Plans) means the maximum dollar amount that is allowed in
reimbursement for any coveted dental service, based on prevailing fees as determined by the
service representative.
20. Medically necessary procedure, service, or supply means one that, in the reasonable opinion of rhe
service representative, meets the following criteria:
a. It is required to diagnose or treat the patient's condition, and the condition could not have
been diagnosed or treated wirhout it.
b. It is consistent with the symptom or diagnosis and treatment of che condition.
A-54
c. It is the most appropriate service or supply essential to the patients needs.
--
25. Participating pharmacy means a pharmacy that has an agreement with the service representative ro 31
accept payments in excess of the prescription drug coinsurance as payment in full for covered 32
prescription costs.
26. Participating provider means a licensed dentist who has agreed to render services and receive 35
payment according to the terms and conditions of a written participating provider agreement 36
under the Prepaid Denta! Plan,
27. Patiem safity standards mean established criteria for patient safety related to hospital services. 39
A hospital meets patient safety standards if it meets established criteria such as those listed 40
below. The boipitalmust publicly cerrify char it meers all crireria and the srarements pertaining 41
to the standards are accurate and reflect normal operaring procedures at the hospital. The 42
criteria include:
a. Computerized physician order entry: the hospital requites physicians to enter all medication 45
orders via computer linked to prescribing error-prevention software that helps eliminate 46
contusion over paper prescription orders and alerts providers to negative drug interactions or 47
othet possible problems.
--
If a health care professional lawfully performs a service covered by the Traditional Medical Plan
when performed by a physician arid if applicable law requires recognition of this health care
professional under the Traditional Medical Plan, the term physician will include the professional
only to the extent required by law.
30. Physician's assistant means a person duly licensed in the area where his or her services are performed
and practicing within the scope of such license.
31. Plan administrator means the Boeing Employee Benefit Plans Committee.
32. Precertification means prospective review and evaluation of proposed elective hospital, substance
abuse treatment facility, and skilled nursingfacility admissions as well as home health and hospice
care by qualified health care professionals. This evaluation, which uses accepted medical criteria
to determine medical necessity and whether Treatment could be given in a less intense or more
--
physician decide on the treatment actually performed. Medical review affects payments under the 5
Traditional Medical Plan as specified in Section 11.B.
33. Prosthetic appliance means a denture, partial denture, fined or removable bridge, crown used as a 8
bridge abutment, and other related items,
34. Referral service means an otganization that manages treatment of substance abuse and mental illness 11
by contracting with providers of this treatment, The organization is responsible for:
a. Assessment of the patient's condition (including crisis intervention).
b. Referrals to referral service providers.
c. Precertification teview of treatment for substance abuse, mental illness, and eating disorders. 18
d. Initial and ongoing review of provider treatment plans to assure services are medically 20
necessary and given in the appropriate setting.
--
7 8 A. Life Insurance Coverage
Life insurance coverage stops on the date employment terminates.
Within thirty-one (31) days after the employee terminates employment, by making application
and paying first premium to the Plan's insurer, the employee may convert life insurance coverage
to an individual life insurance policy on any regular whole life insurance plan. This individual
policy will be issued, without medical examination, at the insurer's regular rates. The amount
of life insurance converted cannot exceed the amount in force on the date insurance
terminates.
If, after an individual conversion policy is issued, benefits under the Life Insurance Plan are
continued due to total disability, the individual policy must be surrendered without claim other
than the rerurn of paid premiums.
If the employee dies within the thirry-one (31)-day conversion period, rhe conversion amount is
payable.
An employee who is being transferred and is no longer eligible for coverage under the Life Insurance
Plan, but who remains employed by the Company or one of its subsidiaries, also may convert the
difference between the amount of life insurance provided by the Life Insurance Plan less the amounr
provided by the plan for which the employee has become eligible. Application must be made within
thirty-one (31) days of the date of transfer.
31 32 B. Accidental Death and Dismemberment Coverage
Accidental death and dismemberment coverage stops on the date employment terminates.
36 C. Medical Coverage
Medical coverage for the employee and dependents stops at the end of the calendar month in which
the employee terminates employment at the end of the last month required contributions are paid,
whichever occurs first. If earlier, a dependent's coverage stops at the end of the month in which he or
she no longer qualifies as a dependent.
However, coverage may be continued under certain circumstances as specified below. Any requited
contributions must be paid during these periods for coverage to continue.
1. In case of layoff, medical coverage for employees and dependents continues until the employee is
covered by any other group medical plan either as an employee or as a dependent, but in no event
beyond three (3) months after the date of layoff,
2. If the employee dies (other than from an industrial accident), medical coverage continues for
eligible dependents until the earlier of twelve (12) months after the employees death or when
the dependents become covered by any other group medical plan.
3, If the employee dies from art industrial accident, medical coverage continues for eligible
dependenrs until the earlier of thirty-six (36) months after the employee's death or when the
dependents become covered by any other group meditTal plan.
A-58
The service representative will make available to a terminating employee an individual program of 1
medical benefits similar to those then being issued for group conversion. The benefits provided under 2
the individual plan will not exactly duplicate the benefits provided under this group medical plan. 3
This conversion privilege is also available to covered dependents that cease to qualify under the group 4
policy and to surviving covered dependents if the employee dies. No evidence of insurability is 5
required.
Dental coverage for the employee and dependents stops at the end of the calendat month in which 10
the employee terminates employment. If earlier, a dependent's coverage stops at the end of the 11
calendar month in which the dependent no longer qualifies as a dependent.
1. If the employee dies (other than from an industrial accident), dental coverage continues for 14
eligible dependents until the earlier of twelve (12) months after the employee's death or when 15
the dependents become covered by any other group dental plan.
2. If the employee dies from an industrial accident, dental coverage continues for eligible 18
dependents until the earlier of thirty-six (36) months after the employee's death or when the 19
dependents become covered by any other group dental plan.
When an employee temains employed by the Company but is no longer in the employee class 24
eligible for coverage under this Package, coverage for the employee and dependents stops at the end 25
of the month in which the employees transfer is effective. If the employee becomes totally disabled 26
before coverage ends under the Package, the life insurance and accidental death and dismemberment 27
benefits of the Package, which would have continued if the employee had stayed in the eligible class, 28
will continue during the total disability instead of all other Company life insurance and accidental 29
death and dismembetment benefits.
F. Continuation of Medical and Dental Coverage (COBRA)
If medical and dental coverage for rhe employee and dependents (including a same-gender domestic 34
partner and his or her children) otherwise would terminate due to one of the following reasons, these 35
benefirs iray continue for specified periods under Public Law 99-272, Title X, as amended, if the 36
individual makes a timely request to the Company and pays the required contribution:
1. Reduction in hours or termination of employment for any reason.
2. The employee's death.
3. The employee's divorce or dissolution of a same-gender domestic partner relationship.
4. A dependent child ceasing to be a dependent as defined under this Package. (A child eligible to 45
be continued under the Package's incapacitated child provision still will be considered to have 46
dependent status.)
5- A dependent's loss of eligibility because the employee became eligible for Medicare.
--
beyond this period, the employee's life insurance, accidental death and dismemberment, medical, and
dental benefits (and dependent medical and dental benefits) continue up to six (6) full consecutive
calendar months during the approved medical leave with Company contributions.
If the approved medical leave extends beyond this six (6)-month period due to continuous total
disability, medical coverage for the employee continues for up to an additional twenty-four (24)
]5
monrhs with Company contributions. (If an employee is not on an approved medical leave and has
been totally disabled for six Ifi) consecutive months, this, wwtfy-faui (24)-moKti piivUkm. may
apply.) Medical coverage ends earlier if the employee becomes eligible for Medicare or is no longer
considered totally disabled. The employee also may continue the life insurance, accidental death and
dismemberment, and dental benefits (and medical and dental benefits for eligible dependents) during
this time by paying the required rates on or before the 10th day of the month in which they are due.
2t
Life insurance waiver of premium may apply if approved by the service representative.
If the total disability continues beyond the thirty (30)-month period, or a covered family member
is considered disabled by Social Security during the seventh or eighth month of the absence, the
employee may continue medical and dental coverage for himself/herself and eligible dependents for
up to five (5) more months by paying one hundred fifty (150%) percent of the cost of coverage. The
employee may continue life insurance and accidental death and dismemberment coverage for the
duration of the approved leave of absence.
30 B. Other Approved Leaves of Absence
An employee who is eligible for coverage and begins an approved leave of absence is eligible for the
Package the same as an active employee until the last day of the calendar month in which the leave
began. (Eligible dependents also are eligible for medical and dental benefits,)
If the approved leave extends beyond this time, the employee's life insurance, accidental death and
57
dismemberment, medical, and dental benefits (and dependent medical and dental benefits) continue
for up to three (3) full consecutive calendar months with Company contributions.
If the approved leave exrends beyond this time, the employee may continue life insurance coverage for
the duration of the approved leave of absence by self-paying the premiums.
43 C. Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993
If the required coverage for family and medical leaves of absence under the Family and Medical Leave
Act of 1993 is more generous than that already provided in Section 20.A. and Section 20.B., the
Company provides any required additional coverage under its group healrh plans.
49 D. Uniformed Services Leave of Absence
If the employee takes a leave of absence fot service in the U.S. uniformed services (including the
military, National Guard, and the Commissioned Corps of the Public Health Service), he or she is
covered under the Package until the end of the month in which the leave began. If the employee
--
If uniformed service extends beyond three (3) months, the employee may continue medical and 1
dental coverage under COBRA.
If the employee returns to active employment promptly after uniformed service, according to federal 4
Saw the Package is reinstated on the date the employee returns to the active payroll.
For an employee changing directly from an approved non-medical leave to an approved medical leave 9
or from an approved medical leave to an approved nonmedical leave, the covetage period provided 10
with Company contributions under one type of leave reduces the coverage period provided with 11
Company contributions under the other typt of leave.
F, Successive Periods of Leaves of Absence
Two (2) medical leaves of absence separated by fewer than thirty (30) days of continuous work are 16
considered one (1) leave of absence unless the second leave is due to entirely unrelated conditions.
--
RETIREE MEDICAL PLAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Section
Title
ELIGIBLE RETIRED EMPLOYEES
B-3
ELIGIBLE DEPENDENTS OF RETIRED EMPLOYEES
B-4
B-6
COMPANY AND RETIRED EMPLOYEE CONTRIBUTIONS
B-7
B-2
SECTION 1
To be eligible for the Retiree Medical Plan, the employee must retire from the service of the Company 4
under The Boeing Company Employee Retirement Plan at age 55 or older with ten (10) or more years of 5
vesting service under a Company-sponsored retirement plan.
If an employee becomes eligible for disability benefits under The Boeing Company Employee Retirement 8
Plan, the employee also is eligible for the Retiree Medical Plan if he or she is at least age fifty (50) and has 9
ten (10) or more years of vesting service at retirement.
An employee who is at least age fifty-five (55) and has ten (10) or more years of vesring service at 12
retirement is eligible for the Retiree Medical Plan if he or she retires under The Boeing Company Employee 13
Retirement Plan within the following time limits:
--
An employee who is eligible for the Retiree Medical Plan at the time active employment -with the Company 21
ends and who defers his or her retirement benefits also must defer enrollment in the Retiree Medical Plan 22
until the date benefits begin under the Company-sponsored rerirement plan.
A tetired employee no longer is eligible for coverage under the Retiree Medical Plan described in this 25
Attachment after attaining age 65 of becoming eligible for Medicare.
SECTION 2
Dependents eligible for the Retiree Medical Plan are the retired employee's legal spouse and unmarried 32
children (natural children, adopted children, children legally placed with the retired employee for 33
adoption, and stepchildren) who are under age 25 and dependent on the retired employee for principal 34
support, including children who ate attending school.
A retired employee may request coverage for the following dependents:
1. A common-law spouse if the relationship meets the common-law requirement for the state in which 39
rhe retired employee entered into the common-law relationship. (A domestic partner is nor considered 40
an eligible spouse.)
2. Othet children, as follows, who are under age 25. unmarried, and dependent on the retired employee 43
for principal support, including children who are attending school:
a. Children who are relared to the tetired employee either directly or through marriage (e.g., 46
b. Children for whom the retired employee has legal custody or guardianship, or has a pending 49
application for legal custody or guardianship, and are living with rhe rerired employee-
Annual certification of eligibility is required to continue coverage fot children from age 19 through age 24. 52
In accordance with federal law, rhe Company also provides medical coverage to certain dependent children 54
(called alternate recipients) if the Company is directed to do so by a qualified medical child support order 55
(QMCSO) issued by a court or state agency of competent jurisdiction.
1 Documentation is required to request coverage for a child named in a QMCSO or for a child for whom
2 the retired employee has been given legal custody or guardianship.
4 A disabled child age 25 or older may continue to be eligible (or enrolled iF the employee is a newly
5 eligible employee) if he or she is incapable of self-support due to any mental or physical condition that
6 began before age 25- The child must be unmarried and dependent on rhe employee for principal support.
7 Coverage may continue under the Retiree Medical Plan for the duration of the incapacity as long as
8 the employee continues to be eligible under the Plan and the child continues to meet these eligibility
9 requirements.
11 Special applications for coverage are required for disabled dependent children age 25 or older.
13 A spouse or dependent child no longer is eligible for coverage under the Retiree Medical Plan described in
14 this Attachment after attaining age 65 or becoming eligible for Medicare,
SECTrON 3
20 A. Initial Enrollment
The retired employee and eligible dependents automatically will be enrolled ac the time the
retired empioyee becomes eligible, provided the retired employee pays any requited Contributions. The
retired employee and dependents are enrolled in the same plan as immediately before retirement, if
applicable.
A retired employee who has been enrolled in a healrh maintenance organization (HMO) or
coordinated care plan may elect to change to the Traditional Medical Plan by calling the Boeing
Service Center within thirty-one (31) days of the date the employee retires. The Company will
supply enrollment instructions at the time of retirement.
All family members, including rhe retired employee, musr be enrolled in the same medical plan,
34 B. Spouse Coverage
Each retitcd employee with a spouse must provide information regarding coverage available th tough
another employer to determine whether special contributions are required to enroll the spouse. If the
retired employee does not authorize a required contribution, the spouse will noc be enrolled for
medical coverage. The retired employee will not be able to enroll the spouse until the date the spouse
loses the option to be covered under the other employer-sponsored medical plan.
44 C. Special Enrollment
If a retired employee declined enrollment for himself/herself or dependents in the Retiree
Medical Plan because of other employer-sponsored health care coverage (such as through a spouse's
employer), the retired employee may be ahle to enroll himself/herself and eligible dependents in the
Company-sponsored Retiree Medical Plan at a later date as long as entollment is within sixty (60) days
after other coverage ends.
If a retired employee declined enrollment for himself/herself or dependents when first eligible and the
retired employees or dependents orher health care coverage was through continuation coverage from
a previous employer (coverage mandared by the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of
1985, or COBRA), the retired employee or dependent must exhaust his or her COBRA coverage to
be eligible for the special enrollment period.
If a retired employee's or dependent's other health care coverage was not through COBRA, the 1
coverage loss must be due to loss of eligibility for that health care coverage (including from divorce, 2
death, termination of employment, or reduction in hours of employment.} or termination of 3
employer contributions toward such coverage.
if a retired employee is not enrolled in the Company-sponsored Retiree Medical Plan and has a new 6
dependent as a result of an event such as marriage, birth, adoption, or placemenr for adoption, the 7
retired employee may enroll himself or herself, his or her spouse, and any dependent children during 8
the year as long as enrollment is requesred within sixty (60) days after the event by contacting the 9
Boeing Service Cenrer.
If a retired employee is enrolled in the Retiree Medical Plan and has a new dependent as a result of 12
marriage, birth, adoption, or placement for adoption, the retired employee may enroll the new 13
dependent during the year as long as enrollment is requested within one hundred twenty (120) days 14
' after the qualified event. See "Change of Dependent Status," Section 3.E., for more information.
ll,
D. Transfer Between Plans
Transfer between plans is permitted only during authorized annuaJ enrollmenr periods or following a 19
change of residence.
1. Annual enrollment period.
The Company establishes an annual enrollment period each year when retired employees may 24
change medical plans,
2. Change of residence.
A retired employee who moves out of an H M O or coordinated care plan service area has sixty 29
(60) days to select a medical plan available in the new location by calling the Boeing Service 30
Center.
It is the retired employee's responsibility to notify the Company of the change in residence 33
within the sixty (60)-day period.
--
The retired employee also may change an elecrion to comply with a qualified medical child support
order (QMCSO) to provide or cancel coverage for a child resulting from a divorce, annulment, or
change in legal custody,
In most situations, the retired employee must request the dependent enrollment change within sixty (60)
days after the qualified event. A retired employee can enroll a new dependent within one
hundred twenry (120) days following the retired employee's marriage or a dependent child's birth,
adoption, or placement for adoption. Enrollment may be requested by calling the Boeing Service Center.
To request enrollment for a new dependent more than sixty (60) days but within one hundred twenty (120)
days after marriage, birth, adoption, or placement for adoption, the retired employee must call the Boeing
Service Center and speak with a customer service representative. The retired employee must
provide the Boeing Service Center with any required supporting documentation within thirty-one (3 ]) days
of the date the dependent enrollment change is requested or the coverage change request will be denied.
42 A. Retired Employees
For newly rerired employees, the Plan becomes effective on the first day of the month coinciding with
the day such eligible employee retires, provided the retired employee pays any required contributions.
47 B, Dependents
The retired employee's current eligible dependents are covered automatically under the Plan on the
--
Company and retired employee contributions for the Retiree Medical Plan are described in Article 16 - 4
Group Benefits.
If contributions are required and coverage is elected, the retired employee may authorize the monthly 7
deduction of the applicable amount from his or her retirement check from The Boeing Company 8
Employee Retirement Plan. Otherwise, the retired employee may arrange to self-pay for coverage through 9
the Boeing Service Center.
SECTION 6
Medical plans and benefits offered to retirees and their eligible dependents are the same as those offered to 16
active employees as described in Attachment A.
A. Retiree Coverage
Medical coverage for the retired employee terminates on the earliest of the following dates:
1. The end of the month before the month the retired employee attains age 65.
2. The end of the month before the month the retired employee becomes eligible for 29
Medicare.
3. The end of the month before the month the retired employee becomes covered under another 32
medical plan offered by ot through the Company.
4. The end of the last month for which any required contributions are paid.
B. Dependent Coverage
Coverage for the eligible dependents of the retired employee terminates on the earliest of the 39
following dates:
1. The end of the month the person no longer is an eligible dependent.
2. The end of the month before the month the person attains age 65.
3. The end of the month before the month the person becomes eligible for Medicare.
4. The end of the month in which the retired employee dies, if rhere is no surviving spouse.
5. The end of the month in which the retired employee's surviving spouse dies.
--
6. The end of the last month the retired employee is covered under this Retiree Medical Plan or 52
the Company-sponsored Medicare Supplement Plan except in the case of the retired employee's 53
death.
7. The end of the last month for which any required contributions are paid.
1 C. Continuation of Medical Coverage (COBRA)
If medical coverage for the retired employee's dependents otherwise would terminate due to one of the
following reasons, these benefits may continue for specified periods under Public Law 99-272, Title
X, as amended, if the individual makes a timely request to the Company and pays the required
contribution:
]. The retired employee's dearh.
2. The retired employee's divorce.
3. The retired employee becomes entitled to Medicare.
4. A dependent child ceases to be a dependent as defined under this Plan. (A child eligible to be
continued under the Plan's incapacitated child provision will still be considered to have
--
If medical coverage terminates for reasons other than voluntary cancellation of coverage by the
individual or by becoming eligible for another Company-sponsored plan, that individual may apply for
an individual policy of insurance of a kind then being issued by the service representative for group
conversion purposes. Evidence of good health will nor be required, provided written application is made
and the first retiree premium is paid within thirty-one (31) days following the end of the month in
which medical coverage terminates. The individual's policy will be issued at the service representative's
customary rate applicable to the age of the individual and to the form and amount of insurance
provided under rhe converted policy.
WICHITA TECHNICAL & PROFESSIONAL UNIT
INDEX
i-i
Subject
Article
Access to Boeing Web, SPEEA (Letter of Understanding - Attachment 12)
Access ro Plants - Union Staff
12.2
Accredited Representatives
12.1
AD&D Insurance (Attachment A - Section 7)
--
Dental Benefits (Sections 12, 13, 14 & 15)
Exclusions, Scheduled Dental Plan (Section 15.H.)
Preferred Dental P/an (Section 13)
Prepaid Provider Denral Plan (Section 14)
Scheduled Dental Plan (Section 15)
Early Retiree Medical Benefits (Attachment B)
Leave of Absence (Section 20) .
Life Insurance (Section 6)
Medical Benefits (Section 9, 10, 11)
Exclusions, Traditional Medical Plan (Secrion 11 .H.)
Hearing Aid Benefits (Section 1 l.D.3.b)
Maternity Benefits (Section 11.E.7)
Maximum Benefit (Section 10.D.)
Optional Health Plans (Section 10)
Precertification Requirements (Section 1 l.B.l)
Prescription Drugs, Mail Order (Section lO.C.lO.c)
Second Surgical Opinion (Section 11.B.2)
Spousal Contribution ($100)
16.2(b)(2)
Substance Abuse Treatment (Section 1 l.E.5.b)
Termination of Coverage (Section 19)
Vision Care Benefit (Section I i.f!)
Joint Meetings
Joint Union/Company Oversight Committee (JOC) (Letter of Understanding - Attachment 7)
Jury Duty
11.7
Layoff Procedure (Redeployment Procedures)
8.3(d)
Contract Personnel
9-3
50 31 29 A-9 44 4 4 4 43 44 22 27 45
20 44
32 41 49 2 26 45 10 A-l A-9 34 A-12 A-38 A-49 A-42 A-43 A-44 B-l . .A-59 A-8 A-10 A-35 A-24 A-30 A-21 A-12 A^21 A-19 A-22 34 A-29 A-58 A-32 23 46 28 16 22
1-2
Executive Board & Council Protection
--
Union Business
Life Insurance (Attachment A, Section 6)
Lockouts, Strikes
Major Organization, definition
Medical Benefits (see Insurance)
Military Leave:
Pay for temporary leave
Re-employmetu Rights for Vetetans
New Employee Progress Reviews
Non-Discrimination
Overtime
Partnership, Wotking Together (Letter of Understanding - Attachment 13)
Part-time Employment
'Hiring employees on Part-time schedule
Medical Benefits for Parr-time Employees
Performance, Employee
Recognition
Report Time for Non-exempr Employees
Retention Indexing
Appeals
Notification
Retirement Plan
Medical Benefits for Early Rerirees (Attachment B)
Contributions (Section 5)
Covered Medical Expenses (Attachment B, Section 6)
Effective Date of Coverage (Section 4)
Eligibility (Sections 1 & 2)
Exclusions (Attachment A, Section 1 l.H.)
How to Enroll (Section 3)
Termination of Coverage (Section 7)
Righrs of Management (Letter of Understanding - Attachment 16)
Salaried Job Classifications (SJC)
Challenges to job classification
Selective Salary Adjustments
Seniority Adjusrment for Retention Index
Severability
Severance Pay (Layoff Benefits)
Sex Crimes (Letter of Understanding - Attachment 17)
ShareValue Program (Letter of Understanding - Attachment 8)
Shift Differential (Incentives)
Sick Leave
Pay for Unreserved Sick Leave on Retirement
Binary file (standard input) matches
