=== HEALTHCARE EXTRACTION: CBA_05 ===
Source: C:/Users/zachary.parolin/INETInequality Dropbox/INET Inequality Team/Projects/LLMs & Inequality/1_CBAs/Cornell Archive/Cornell-DoL/6018ABBYY.pdf
Total document lines: 5659
Extracted healthcare lines: 1290
===========================================

ARTICLE VII

{1 )(A) Health Maintenance Organizations
45
(1 )(B) Point Of Service (POS)
(I )(C) Traditional Medical Plan
(2) Prescription Drue Co-Pav Plan
58
(3) Exclusive Provider Arrangement (EPA)
59
(4) Vision Plan
(5) Group Dental Plan
ARTICLE V11I
(1) Retirement Plan
63
(2) MichCon Investment and Stock Ownership Plan
71
(3) Group Life Insurance
74
(4) Accidental Death and Dismemberment
ARTICLE IX
(1) Company Seniority
75
(2) Departmental Seniority
(3) Seniority of Laid Off Employees
76
(4) Loss of Company and Departmental Seniority
(5) Employees Transferred Outside the Bargaining Unit
(6^ Loans Outside the Bargaining Unit
(7) Revised Seniority List
77
(8) Breaking Seniority Ties
--
ARTICLE X
(1) Advanced Assignment Opportunities
78
(2) Job Vacancy Location List
(3) Filling a Job Vacancy by Movement
(4) Semi-Annual Ratings
,
(5) Filling a .lob Vacancy by Advanced Assignment
79
(6) Written Details of Movements and Advanced Assignments
80
(7) Removal of Ineligible Employee From Advanced Assignment
(8) Credits Accumulated on Temporary Assignment
'.'...
81
--
Secretary-Treasurer
Gas Workers Local #80 Service Employees International Union, AFL-CIO
Any employee who is a member of and adheres to established and traditional tenets or teachings of a bona fide religion, body, or sect which has historically held conscientious objections to joining or financially supporting labor organizations shall not be required to join or financially support the Union as a condition of employment; provided, however, that such employee shall, as a condition of his or her employment, in lieu of the payment of periodic dues and initiation fees to the Union, pay sums equal to such dues and initiation fees to any of the following non-religious charitable funds, which are exempt from taxation under Section 501(c)(3) of Title 26 of the International Revenue Code:
1. American Cancer Society: 2. American Heart Association, Inc.; 3. United Cerebral Palsy
Pursuant to Article II, (3), the Company shall remit the periodical dues and initiation fees to the Union whose responsibility it will be to forward the appropriate amounts to the aforementioned non-religious charitable organizations for such employees who exercise the option set forth above.
It is further understood if such employees who hold conscientious objections of joining or financially supporting labor organizations request the Union to use the grievance-arbitration procedure on his or her behalf, the Union is authorized to charge the employee for the reasonable cost of using such procedure. It is expressly agreed that any such employee holding conscientious objections to joining or financially supporting labor organizations, who requests the Union to use the grievance-arbitration procedure on his or her behalf, shall be requested to pay to the Union the reasonable costs of the arbitration proceedings in advance. The Union, prior to the inception
-9-
ARTICLE II
of the grievance procedure and also prior to beginning the arbitration procedure, shall advise the grievant, in writing, of the reasonable costs of using such procedure and shall have no obligation to proceed on behalf of the employee prior to receiving the full payment of such costs. Moreover, should the costs of the grievance-arbitration procedure exceed the Union's estimate of the reasonable costs, the employee shall be thereafter liable for any such difference.
Further, it is understood that the Union shall have the responsibility for collecting any of the above mentioned charges assessed to employees for use of the grievance and/or arbitration procedures.
In all other respects the existing agreement between the undersigned parties shall remain in full force and effect.
The Company will maintain a voluntary C.O.P.E. and P.A.C. Fund checkoff for bargaining unit employees.
(5) Non-Discrimination - There shall be no discrimination, interference, restraints or coercion by the Company or any of its agents against members of the Union because of membership therein.
(6) Union Activities - The Union agrees that its officers, representatives, and members will not solicit memberships nor engage in Union activities on Company time, except as provided herein, and that its officers, representatives, and members will not intimidate or coerce employees in any manner at any time.
(a) An employee's departmental representative and the Union Vice President in charge of grievances or an alternative officer shall be allowed time off, without loss of pay, during their scheduled work hours, for the purpose of investigating the employee's difference or processing his or her grievance, subject to the following conditions:
(i) They shall report to their immediate supervisors who shall be informed of the reason for the meeting or meetings, with whom, when, and where held, and what time they expect to return to their regular assignments;
(ii) They shall receive a clearance from the supervisor of the employee whom they plan to contact; and
- 10-
(iii) They shall report to their immediate supervisors at the conclusion of such meeting or meetings.
(b) In addition. Union officers, grievance committee members, and departmental representatives shall be allowed time off, without loss of pay, during their scheduled work hours, for the purpose of attending grievance meetings at which their presence is required by the grievance procedure. for the purpose of attending meetings with the Company, and for such other purposes as may be mutually agreed upon. No absence with pay will be permitted under this paragraph for the attendance of funerals or for the visiting of funeral homes.
(c) Except as provided above, no absence with pay will be permitted for Union activities. Absence without pay for Union activities may be permitted subject to the following conditions:
(i) It will not interfere with the operation of the Company's business;
and
'
(ii) With respect to any one (I) absence in excess of ten (10) scheduled working days, reasonable advance written notice is presented by the Union President to the Director of Labor Relations prior to the commencement of such absence. *
(d) Union activities are defined as any activities involving Union officers, grievance committee members or departmental representatives other than those at which an authorized representative of the Company is present.
(7) Supervisory Work - Supervisory, technical or confidential employees may be assigned to the inspection of contract work on new main installations provided that the Company shall also assign one employee from the bargaining unit to the same job or jobs. In addition, supervisory, technical or confidential employees may perform work normally assigned to members of the bargaining unit when it is for the purpose of instructing employees within the bargaining unit, or during periods of emergency, or when the work is associated with such supervisory, technical, or confidential employees' regular assignments, except that in the latter case, the time involved shall not exceed 20 percent of the workday. It is expressly agreed that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not be construed to limit the clerical work which is now performed by the Station Clerks, now employed by the Company, or their successors, nor prohibit the performance of such
- II -
work by additional Station Clerks who may be assigned to any new station.
(8) Number of Representatives - It is agreed that departmental representatives of the Union will be limited to one hundred and ten (110) and, along with the President, two (2) Vice-Presidents and Secretary-Treasurer, shall have top seniority rights as provided in Article III, paragraph (7); Article XII, paragraph (7); Article XI, paragraph (4)(b); Article XI, paragraph (5); and Article XI, paragraph (6)(c). The Union shall provide the Company with a list of such Union officers and departmental representatives.
The Union acknowledges the importance of exercising its discretion to select and assign department representatives so as not to interfere with the successful operations of the business, and to otherwise work with operation leaders to minimize the number of departmental representatives involved in meetings or special projects.
(9) Union Officer Pay/Coverage - The parties have agreed that effective with 1994 elections for Local #80, the Company will henceforth only pay for four (4) Union officers. Thereafter, the Company will provide coverage at the Company's expense, when one of the four (4) remaining officers is absent due to scheduled vacation.
ARTICLE HI
--
(2) Distribution of Overtime - Both parties recognize that in cases of emergencies and seasonal changes in demand, employees may be required to work in excess of their scheduled hours. Such work shall be distributed equitably, in a systematic manner within each department, among employees qualified to do the work.
(3) Work Hour Limitation - No employee will be required to work more than sixteen (16) consecutive hours (exclusive of non-paid eating time) unless agreed to by the employee.
(4) Make-Up Time - Whenever possible, and whenever there is work to be done in his or her department and location, an opportunity will be given an employee, upon request, within the current workweek, to make up time lost due to justifiable absence, provided that supervision has approved the intended absence, and if the work is normally performed under direct supervision, such supervision is in attendance. In such case, pay for that time will be at regular straight-time hourly rates.
(5) Rain Time - No employee shall be required to lose any scheduled time on account of rain, nor any time when called for planned work outside of the normal workweek schedule. The authority to reassign employees from the work temporarily stopped by rain or other work shall be reserved to the - 13-
ARTICLE III
Company. Transportation shall be provided by the Company to and from the location of the reassigned work. Whenever it is imperative to continue work while it is raining, protective clothing shall be provided by the Company.
(6) Work Shifts - H is mutually agreed that, although work shifts should be held to a minimum number, it is the Company's responsibility to determine the need for shift work based on the function of a department or departmental activity and the requirements of the Company's customers. However, prior to any change in shift lime or the creating of a new shift by the Company, the need therefore shall be discussed in detail with the Union. If the Union does not agree as to the need for any change in shift time or the creation of a new shift, the matter may be made subject to the grievance procedure hereinafter set forth, provided that the Company may effect such change in shift time or create a new shift pending and subject to the outcome of the grievance procedure.
(7) 'Work Shift Assignment - Assignment for work on shifts within a department shall be rotated by the Company within a department, by location, among all qualified employees performing work of a similar nature, unless agreed upon between the Company and the Union. At any time during a scheduled workweek, the Company may assign any employee to work nonschediiled hours in lieu of his or her scheduled hours (refer to Article IV, paragraph I )a)) or such portion of the balance of the scheduled workweek as the Company shall designate, provided that the Company shall notify the employee of the change in his or her work hours at least ten (10) hours prior to the time he or she shall be required to commence working such nonscheduled hours and provided that an employee shall not be required to work two (2) consecutive shifts. Qualified employees shall have the privilege of exchanging shift assignments if permission to do so is obtained from their immediate supervisprs. The Union officers and departmental representatives referred to in Article II, paragraph (8), shall be excused from working any odd shift unless they request otherwise.
(8) Shift Changes for Executive Board Members and Union Representatives - Executive Board members and representatives can continue to change their own shifts so that they can attend Executive Board and general membership meetings.
-14-
ARTICLE IV
ARTICLE IV
(1) Premium Pay- Except as provided in Article IV, (I), c) below and Article III, (4), time and one-half (1-1/2) the employee's regular straight-time hourly rate of pay shall be paid for:
(a) Work performed by an employee outside of his or her scheduled work hours;
(b) Work performed by an employee required to start on Martin Luther King's Birthday, Good Friday, Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day, the Day after Thanksgiving;
(c) Work performed by an employee scheduled to be started on Saturdays or Sundays, when these days fall within the employee's forty (40) hour work week, employee will be paid at one and one-quarter (I-?) the employee's regular straight-time hourly rate of pay.
(d) Double time shall be paid for Thanksgiving Day. Christmas Eve. Christmas Day. New Years Eve and New Years Day. Double time will only be paid on the actual dav of the holiday and not on the date on which the Company celebrates the above holidays as defined in Article V. (5).
In no case will premium compensation be duplicated or pyramided.
(2) Shift Differential Pay - In addition to the straight time-hourly rates established by the Classification of Work and Wages, forming a pan thereof, a shift differential for work performed will be paid as follows:
(a) Effective January 1, 1995, a shift differential of $0.60 per hour will be paid for all work performed by employees required to be started after 11:59 a.m. and prior to 8:00 p.m.; or
(b) A differential of $0.60 per hour will be paid for all work performed by employees required to be started after 7:59 p.m. and prior to 5:00 a.m.
(c) Effective January 1, 1998, shift differential will increase from $0.60 to $1.20 per hour Monday through Friday on the second and third shifts and $1.00 on the second and third shifts, Saturday and Sunday.
- 15-
(3) Call-In Pay - Employees called in to work and sent home shall receive not less than two (2) hours pay.
(4) Paid Eating Time - When an employee works two (2) hours past the end of his or her first eight (8) hours and must continue working, he or she shall be allowed a one-half (1/2) hour lunch period with no loss of pay. For each additional consecutive four (4) hours, he or she shall be allowed another one-half (1/2) hour lunch period without loss of pay, providing the work must continue.
(5) Car Mileage - When a car mileage allowance is authorized by the IRS, the Company will recognize said allowance in the next available pay period during the term of this contract.
(6) Distribution of Paychecks - On or after June 30, 1996, the Company will distribute paychecks to employee's biweekly on Thursday, after 3:00 p.m.
(7) Pay Stub Information - The Company will provide the following information on an employee's pay stub: (a) hourly contract rate; (b) total wages - current and year-to-date; (c) overtime hours - current and year-to-dale; (d) overtime amount - current; (e) F.I.C.A. tax withheld - current and year-to-date; (0 federal tax withheld - current and year-to-date; (g) state income tax withheld - current and year-to-date; (h) local income tax withheld - current and year-to-date; (i) salary deferral - current and year-to-date; (j) unused vacation.
-16-
ARTICLE V
ARTICLE V
--
employees an opportunity to take vacations by location and at times desired by them. Vacation periods shall be scheduled pursuant to the foregoing and the following provisions.
(a) Each year between February 1 and March 10, each employee shall be canvassed by Company seniority and classification group for his or her desired vacation period. Each employee shall submit his or her request within three (3) weeks after being contacted.
(b) In the event of conflicting requests for vacation periods, priority shall be based on greatest Company seniority.
(c) An employee who fails to designate a desired vacation schedule within the time requirement set forth in (a) above, shall not be entitled to exercise a priority until after April I, or after all other employees have been given an equal opportunity to make their selection, whichever shall occur first, and then such priority may be utilized only with respect to the remaining unscheduled vacation periods.
(d) Vacation scheduling criteria for employees in the Customer Service Department is outlined in Letter #3 located within the Customer Service section of the contract.
(4) Vacation Option Plan (VOP) (a) Buying Vacation Days All regular full-time and part-time employees may buy up to five (5) additional vacation days.
Purchased vacation time, like all vacation time, must be scheduled according to departmental operations. If employee does not elect to participate, the employee will retain his/her current vacation eligibility.
Employees will be paid for purchased vacation as it is taken, the same as earned vacation.
If the employee elects to enroll in the VOP (Vacation Option Plan), the purchased days are added to your earned vacation days, but will be considered the second days used after carryover days to avoid forfeiture. The purchased vacation days cannot be carried forward to the next year.
The cost of each vacation day purchased is based on the employee's base salary as of December 31. Salary increases between December 31
-19-
and the time the employee takes the vacation are not added to the employee's cost. The cost of purchased vacation days will spread over a 26-week biweekly pay period beginning in January.
If the employee purchases vacation days and terminates employment within forty-eight (48) weeks, before all deductions are taken, the balance of the cost of the purchased vacation days will be deducted from the employee's final pay, regardless of actual use.
(b) Pay For Unused Earned Vacation Days
(i) All regular full-time and regular part-time employees are eligible to be paid for unused earned vacation days (at least three (3) weeks of earned vacation).
(ii) Employees with three (3) weeks of earned vacation may receive reimbursement from the Company for one (1) to five (5) days of unused vacation. Employees with four (4) or more weeks of earned vacation may receive payment for one (I) to ten (10) days of unused vacation. Only earned vacation which is unused as of the twentieth (20th) month from date of award is subject to this provision.
(iii) All other vacation days not used at the end of a twenty (20) month period will be forfeited.
(iv) When the Company pays for unused earned vacation days, the amount is a lump sum distribution in the employee's paycheck. Applicable taxes will be withheld.
(v) The Company will not pay for unused purchased vacation days. They are forfeited if not used before the last pay period in December or termination of employment.
(vi) No other changes are being made to the Company's vacation forfeiture policy.
ELIGIBILITY SCHEDULE
Employee Vacation Eligibility
Purchase Additional Vacation Days
Pay For Earned Unused Vacation
2 Weeks or Less 3 Weeks 4 Weeks 5 Weeks
1-5 Days 1-5 Days 1-5 Days 1-5 Days
-01-5 Days l-IODays 1-10 Days
-20-
(5) Paid Holidays - With the exception of part-time employees, summer employees and employees withless than ninety (90) days of service, each employee will receive, in addition to any compensation provided for in Article IV hereof for time worked, eight (8) hours straight-time pay for each of the following days: New Year's Day, Martin Luther King's Birthday, Good Friday, Memorial Day. Fourth of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, the Day after Thanksgiving, December 24, Christmas Day. and December 31. Part-time employees will receive that part of eight (8) hours straighttime pay in the proportion of their normal scheduled workweek bears to a forty (40) hour workweek. Summer employees are not eligible to receive holiday pay. Whenever possible, and if consistent with safe plant operations, employees shall not be required to work on holidays. No employee required to work on a holiday shall be scheduled to take corresponding time off because of having worked on such day. New employees - see Article XVII, paragraph (4)(d).
--
(7) Jury Duty - When any full-lime employee is required lo serve on a jury or as a subpoenaed witness, that employee will be excused from his or her regular duties on the days such employee is required to appear in court. Employees will be paid eight (8) hour's pay at their regular straight-time rate. Effective December 4, 1988, employees will retain the check issued for jury service and/or serving as a subpoenaed witness.
(8) Family/Mcdical Leave - T h e Company recognizes its obligations under the Family/Medical Leave Act of 1993. In this regard, the Company has the right to:
(a) Make payroll deductions for arrears in employee health care premiums if the employee's Family/Medical Leave is unpaid and;
Require an employee on Family/Medical Leave to use all sick hours in the employee's sick bank and all vacation prior to unpaid leave.
(9) Leave of Absence - Except as provided in paragraph 8) herein Family/Medical Leave, an employee having two (2) or more years of service with the Company may be granted a leave of absence for health, recre-22-
ational or educational reasons for a period not to exceed six (6) months subject to the following conditions:
(i) No leave shall be granted unless, prior to the date on which the employee proposes to commence such leave, the Company, without additional cost, adding to the work force, or impeding the execution of the workload can make arrangements for replacement by shifting employees who are now on the active payroll and are qualified without further training to do the work of the employee requesting the leave of absence;
(ii) All earned vacation shall be used before the starting date of the leave;
(iii) An employee receiving a leave of absence for a period exceeding one (I) month shall be transferred to the inactive payroll effective the date such leave of absence commences and shall thereupon cease to accumulate departmental seniority, vacation credits and sick leave credits. In addition, opportunity for advancement shall be closed, and the employee shall be considered for layoffs to the same extent he or she would be so considered if such employee were on the active payroll;
(iv) While an employee is on leave of absence and upon termination thereof, his or her rights under the Retirement Plan. Group Life Insurance Plan, the Traditional Medical Plan or Health Maintenance Insurance Plan, Group Dental Plan, Prescription Drug Co-Pay Plan and Surviving Spouse Annuity Plan shall be governed by the provisions of such plans;
(v) Upon termination of a leave of absence exceeding one (1) month, the employee shall be examined by the Company doctor. In the event the employee is found not physically or mentally qualified to resume the normal duties of his or her classification, the employee need not be reinstated on the active payroll until the disability has been corrected. If such correction is not effected within six (6) months, the employee need not be reinstated. If and when the employee is found so qualified, he or she shall be returned to the active payroll and such employee shall start to accumulate departmental seniority and shall start to accrue, on the basis of his or her length of continuous employment with the Company, uninterrupted by an event that would cause a loss of seniority, vacation credits and sick leave credits as of the first day of the month in which the employee returns to work. Further, such employee shall be entitled to all departmental seniority previously accumulated and all vacation credits and sick leave credits previously accrued and not used; -23-
(vi) An employee on a leave of absence shall notify the Company of his or her intentions regarding his or her return to work at least seven (7) days prior to the termination date of such leave. Failure to report on the day following the termination date of such leave shall constitute just cause for discharge. A leave of absence shall not be granted to permit an employee to accept employment elsewhere or to engage in any other business activity, and if an employee accepts employment elsewhere or engages in any other business activity during the employee's leave of absence without the consent of the Company, this action shall constitute just cause for discharge.
(10) Armed Service
During the life of this Agreement, the Company shall, in accordance with its Policy and Procedure No. 323. revised November I. 1986, make provision for all employees who leave its service for an extended period of time for service in the Armed Forces of the United States.
(11) ACCIDENT AND SICKNESS PLAN - T h e Company has provided for and will continue in effect during the term of this Agreement, an Accident and Sickness Plan, as amended to the date hereof, entitled "Accident and Sickness Plan for Union Employees." The Company reserves the right to contract with a Third Party Administrator to administer the program.
Local # 80 will be notified in writing forty-five days prior to any change in administrators.
PARTI
DEFINITIONS
(1) The word "Company" is defined to mean Michigan Consolidated Gas Company,
(2) The word "employee", as used herein, means a regular, active employee of the Company.
(3) The phrase "normal scheduled week." as used herein, means a forty (40) hour workweek for full-time employees and such number of hours less than forty (40) during a week as may be designated as the normal scheduled workweek for each part-time employee. -24-
(4) "Pay" for absences described herein shall mean the payment of benefits, as provided for in the Plan, computed on the basis of the employee's regular straight time rate of pay excluding shift differential, bonuses and other premium pay.
(5) The word "disability" is defined as mental or physical incapacity of an employee to perform his or her regular job or any other job the Company may offer and which the employee is otherwise qualified to perform.
(6) The phrase "otherwise qualified to perform," as used herein, means an employee's possession of the necessary educational training, aptitude, ability and personal characteristics which may be required to perform the offered job.
{7) The phrase "continuous employment," as used herein, means the total of an employee's length of service with the Company, unbroken by (a) Resignation (b) Discharge (c) Retirement (d) A layoff for lack of work for a period resulting in loss of seniority under the provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. (e) Failure to comply with the recall provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
PART II NON-OCCUPATIONAL DISABILITY
(1) DEFINITION A non-occupational disability is defined as a disability which results from disease, illness or accidental injury, mental or physical incapacity, which is not compensable under the Workers Compensation Act of the State of Michigan. Effective July 1, 1998, this disability can be paid according to the Program Design or the disability can be unpaid.
(2) WHO IS ELIGIBLE FOR BENEFITS An employee who has completed at least three (3) months of continuous employment with the Company shall receive pay as outlined in the Program Design and the Non-Occupational Disability Guidelines. New hires will not he paid for the first twenty-four (24) hours of sick time during their first year of employment. -25-
(3) SCHEDULE OF BENEFITS
The following schedule of benefits outlines the percentage of pay and maximum number of scheduled work hours for which an employee, may receive such pay; provided that, the Company reserves the right to retire an employee under the Permanent and Total Disability provisions of the Retirement Plan prior to the expiration of the benefits under the Accident and Sickness Plan.
PROGRAM DESIGN
Effective January 1,2001, employees will be paid out of the 100% bank, from the first day of disability, for the first forty (40) hours of sick time. Following the first forty,(40) hours of sick time in a calendar year,, the employee will be eligible, at the next occurrence, for base pav as outlined in the Non-Occupational Disability Guidelines, after an elimination period of one (1) working day, per incident of disability. If sick time. taken within the first.forty (40) hours, continuously extends beyond forty (40) hours, time will be paid.according to the Non-Occupational Disability Guidelines, without an elimination period interrupting pay. (Following completion of this disability an elimination dav will be required for every disability.) Effective January I, 2001. leave days will no longer be awarded. Leave days (if awarded from the previous program) and/or vacation days may be used to bridge the elimination period. Volunatry authorized time cannot be used to bridge the elimination period. Paid sick time will be for employee non-occupational disability only. Sick time will be paid from the employees accrued hours, as determined in the Non-Occupational Disability Guidelines. The 100% and 80% bank will be exhausted before an employee is paid out_of the 90% hank. Medical documentation will be required if the disability extends beyond three (3) consecutive davs. Hifiteen days will be allowed for documentation to be submitted by the employees' medical provider, before pay is stopped. If the documentation submitted after pay has been awarded does,not support pay, then the amount paid will be collected from the employee through payroll deduction(s). If no documentation is submitted, then the amount paid will be collected from the employee through payroll deduction(s).
Vacation and leave days (if awarded from the previous program), may be used for scheduled and unscheduled personal absences, with supervisory approval. Employees may also use vacation and Leave days (if awarded from the previous program) for scheduled and unscheduled medical absences, without supervisor approval. The employee does not have to use
-26-
ARTICLU V
Leave days or vacation time to bridge the elimination period. Perfect attendance for 1999 and 2000 will be awarded, as prescribed under the Collective Bargaining Agreement, in January of 2001. In the future Leave days will no longer be awarded for perfect attendance. Supervisors will continue to grant authorized voluntary time as work schedules permit. Leave days (if awarded from the previous program) will not be paid out when an emplyee retires or terminates. Employees may use Leave days prior to retiring.
Current employees will keep the hours they have accrued in their sick banks. T h e number of hours an employee has accrued in their bank as of .January 1.2001. will be divided between the 100%. 8 0 % and 90% banks. as indicated in the Non-Occupational Disabilities Guidelines chart below. The total number of accrued hours will not be affected. Current employees whose banks total over 2,080 hours will have their banks frozen. If their banks, through usage, dip below 2,080 hours, the growth of their banks will be governed by the Non-Occupational Disability Guidelines listed below:
Non-Occupational Disability Guidelines
Length of Continous Employment
Paid at 100%
Scheduled Work Hours Paid at 80%
Scheduled Work Hours Paid at 90%*
3 Months to I Year
40
8J
0
1 But Less Than 2 Years
^
2 But Less Than 3 Years
2J0_
--
shall be allowed to continue to use the employee's Accident and Sickness benefits, if any for up to a total period of six months and/or in the event the employee's Accident and Sickness benefits have expired, he/she shall be placed on a medical leave of absence for up to a total of six months, from the date the results of the Company doctor exam are provided to the Company, in order to give the employee time to try and identify a position within the Company for which he/she is qualified to perform and for which the employee is selected to fill by the Company.
Upon completion of the additional six month period, if the employee has noi been selected to fill a position for which they have been determined qualified by the Company, the employee shall be retired under the Permanent and Total Disability provisions of the Retirement Plan if he/she is eligible in accordance with the provisions of the Retirement Plan. If said employee is not eligible for retirement under the Permanent and Total Disability provisions of the Retirement Plan, he/she shall be terminated and receive a Termination Payment. Employees who still have a non-occupational disability after the expiration of his/her benefits, and who have not been retired under the Permanent and Total Disability provisions of the Retirement Plan or been terminated in accordance with the provision of Termination Payments, as defined under this provision an employee shall be placed on a medical leave of absence.
An employee shall not receive any compensation while on medical leave of absence and shall be paid in full for any and all unused, earned and accrued vacation credits due to him/her before being placed on such leave. While an employee is on a medical leave of absence and upon termination thereof, his/her rights under the Retirement Plan, Group Life Insurance Plan, Traditional Medical Plan or HMO, Group Dental Plan, Prescription Drug, and Surviving Spouse Annuity Benefit shall be governed by the provisions of such plans.
Should a doctor of the employee's choice dispute the Company doctor's opinion of the recovery or expected recovery time, the employee shall be examined by a health care provider who has been mutually agreed upon and such provider shall make the final determination of the employee's recovery and ability to resume their current position. The cost of examination by such medical staff and transportation costs to and from such hospital for these examinations shall be born by the Company.
-29-
(6) TERMINATION PAYMENTS
The number of hours pay for termination payment shall be fixed as of the first day of the period of absence in which an employee's benefits under Pan II expire.
Length Of Continuous Employment
6 Months to 1 Year 1 But Less Than 2 Years 2 But Less Than 3 Years 3 But Less Than 4 Years 4 But Less Than 5 Years 5 But Less Than 6 Years 6 But Less Than 7 Years
Number of Hours Pay For Termination 174 348 522 696 870 1044 1218
(7) MEDICAL EXAMINATION
The Company reserves the right to require that an employee returning from a non-occupational disability be examined by the Company doctor on : Company time and at Company expense and his determination shall govern whether or not the employee is medically able to return to work.
(8) VACATION RESCHEDULING
--
ARTICU: V
age, prescription drug co-pay plan, Surviving Spouse Annuity coverage and Group Life Insurance Plan shall remain in full force and effect. If, during this period of his/her absence due to disability, he or she shall become eligible for an increase in such coverage or benefits, such an increase will be made available to him/her subject to the underwriting practices of the carrier involved.
(10) RETIREMENT PLAN
While an employee is on disability his/her rights under the Retirement Plan shall be governed by the provisions of such Plan.
(11) RULES FOR EMPLOYEES
For each incident of non-occupational disability involved, if an employee fails to observe any other following rules, the Company may deny all or part of the non-occupational disability benefits otherwise payable under this Plan for such incident and may, unless required under the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, deny all or part of the medical leave of absence:
(a) Notify the Company as soon as possible in all cases involving such disabilities and, if possible, on the first day of such disability.
(b) Give the Company full and correct information, to the best of the employee's ability, regarding the disability and furnish medical certificates from the attending physician, when requested by the Company.
(c) Take proper care of themselves and, when needed, provide themselves with adequate medical attention at the employees expense.
(d) Follow the recommendations as to care and treatment made by attending physician.
(e) Submit to such physical examinations by the Company doctor as the doctor may deem necessary in cases of absences in excess of seven (7) calendar days or in cases of chronic user of Plan insurance benefits regardless of length of absence.
(12) DENIAL OF BENEFITS
In case of disability due to the use of intoxicants, the unauthorized use of narcotics, engaging in criminal acts, intentional imposed self-injury, future
-31 -
service in the armed forces, willful misconduct or any disability incurred as a result of self-employment or employment by other than the Company, non rights shall exist to benefits under this Plan.
(13) COMPANY INVESTIGATION
In addition to other rights reserved to the Company in this Plan, the Company may investigate any case of reported disability and may, after prior written notice, require a statement from a doctor legally licensed lo practice medicine in the State of Michigan, as to the nature and extent of all absence thereafter occurring at any time due to non-occupational disability. Such a written notice shall cover a period of twelve (12) months unless otherwise reduced or rescinded by the Company.
PART III
OTHER MEDICALLY CONNECTED ABSENCES
(1) Definition
Other medically connected absences are defined as an employee's absence from work due to the serious illness or injury of a member of his or her immediate family. An employee will not be paid for any absence due to an ill or injured family member. If an employee has Leave days they may use Leave days for family illness or injury. Supervisors will continue to grant authorized time as work schedules permit. An employee's absence from work due to a scheduled medical or dental appointment including preinduction examinations and service connected disability examinations for military veterans. These absences are unpaid, If an employee has Leave days they may use Leave days or vacation time for these absences.
(2) Who is Covered
(a) An employee who is entitled lo unpaid sick family, in accordance with the schedule under Part II, Section (3), may draw such benefits when a member of his or her immediate family; namely, his or her spouse, child, step-child, mother, father, sister, brother, father-in-law, mother-in-law, step-parent or foster parent (when the relationship has been equal to that of a natural parent), has a serious illness or serious injury or in the case of childbirth involving the employee's spouse; provided that:
-32-
(i) Unpaid sick family will be allowed for an absence required to take or accompany a member of the immediate family to or from medical treatment only when it is clearly shown that there were no other practical means available by which the family member could get the needed medical attention and not more than four (4) hours will be allowed to make alternate arrangements for the care of a member of the immediate family when such family member is so ill that the services of an attendant are required and only when it can be clearly shown that the services of the employee are required for such purposes: and
(ii) Unpaid sick family up to a maximum of eight (8) hours per occurrence will be allowed in surgical cases or critical illnesses involving a member of the employee's immediate family only when the employee's presence is required by the attending physician; and
(iii) A maximum of eight (8) hours of sick leave credits will be allowed for childbirth cases. The eight (8) hours shall include the time the employee spends taking his wife to the hospital and awaiting the birth. An additional eight (8) hours will be granted to allow the employee to take the mother and child home.
This benefit shall also be available in the event the employee and the mother of the employee's child are not married, provided the employee documents his parenthood upon request.
(b) Paid or unpaid sick self shall be allowed for an employee's medical or dental appointments provided that the following conditions are met:
(i) The appointment cannot be scheduled at a time other than the employee's regularly scheduled hours of work; and
(ii) The employee's workweek schedule (excluding shift changes and changing days off with other employees) cannot be changed to accommodate the appointment; and
(iii) The employee submits written notice to his or her immediate supervisor at least thirty-six hours prior to the scheduled appointment.
(iv) Only such time as is required for the appointment including travel time shall be allowed.
-33-
(v) A resulting disability requiring further absence of an employee will be covered under Part II, Section (3), to the extent of his or her disability, subject to the employee complying with all the requirement of Part II of this Plan.
--
An employee who still has an occupational disability after expiration of his or her benefits under Part IV, Section (3). shall be examined by the Company doctor. If in the opinion of the Company doctor, the employee may recover within one (I) year, the employee shall be placed on medical leave of absence of up to fifty-two (5?.) weeks. An employee shall not receive any compensation or any other Company benefits while on a medical leave of absence and shall be paid in full for all unused earned and accrued vacation credits due him or her before being placed on such leave. While an employee is on such leave and upon termination thereof, his or her rights under the Retirement Plan, Group Life Insurance Plan, TVaditional Medical Plan or Complementary Medical Plan or Dental Plan, Prescription Drug Co-Pay, and Surviving Spouse Annuity Plan shall be governed by the provisions of such plans. If, in the opinion of the Company doctor, the employee will not recover within one (I) year, or, if the employee has been placed on a medical leave of absence, and, in the opinion of the Company doctor, he or she has not recovered at the expiration of such leave, then the employee shall be retired under the Permanent and Total Disability provisions of the Retirement Plan, if he or she is eligible in accordance with the provisions of the Retirement Plan. If the employee is not eligible for retirement under the Permanent and Total Disability provisions of the Retirement Plan, he or she shall be terminated. Should a doctor of the employee's choice dispute the Company doctor's opinion of the recovery or expected recovery time, the employee shall be examined by the medical staff of a hospital which has been mutually agreed upon and such staff shall make the final determination of his or her recovery or expected recovery time. The cost of the examinations by such medical staff and transportation costs to and from such hospital for these examinations shall be borne by the Company.
While an employee is on disability and receiving benefits under Part IV, Section (3), his or her coverage and payroll deductions, if any, for hospitalmedical-surgical coverage, or Health Maintenance Insurance Plan Dental coverage, Prescription Drug Co-Pay Plan, Surviving Spouse Annuity coverage and Group Life Insurance Plans shall remain in full force and effect. If, during the period of his or her absence due to disability, he or she should become eligible for an increase in such coverage or benefits, such an increase will be made available to him or her subject to the underwriting practices of the carrier involved.
-37-
(8) Retirement Plan While an employee is on disability and receiving full pay benefits under Part IV, Section (3), his or her rights under the Retirement Plan shall be governed by the provisions of such Plan.
(9) Rules for Employees (a) In all cases involving occupational disabilities, an employee shall follow such rules and regulations as may be in effect with respect thereto and notify the Company as soon as possible in accordance therewith. (b) Give the Company full and correct information, to the best of the employee's ability, regarding the disability. (c) Accept any medical services offered by the Company and follow such recommendations as may be made regarding care and treatment. (d) Report as directed for treatment and re-dressings when instructed to do so. (e) Submit to such physical examinations by the Company doctor or a hospital medical staff as the Company may deem necessary. The cost of these examinations will be borne by the Company.
(10) If there is willful or gross negligence on an employee's part as to the safety of himself or herself or a fellow employee or if he/she fails to observe normal safety precautions or any of the rules in Part IV, Section (9), the Company may deny the employee 160 hours of the occupational disability benefits otherwise payable to him or her under this Plan which are in excess of required Worker's Compensation payments.
-38-
ARTICLE VI
ARTICLE VI
(1) Work Clothing - Special work clothing will be supplied by the Company and for all Field and Shop employees in the Distribution Operations, Meter Reading, Metering, Property Operation Maintenance, Real Estate (Building Maintenance Section), Field Service Operations, Stock and Transportation Departments in its Detroit District. Shoes, rubbers, coats and/or jackets and liners will be supplied for Service Consumption Technicians. The number of garments issued will be governed by existing established issuance allowances. Boots or high galoshes will be supplied for employees in the Distribution Operations Department. Cleaning of the work clothing and repair of both work clothing and footwear supplied by the Company will be done by and at the expense of the Company. In addition, the Company shall supply, clean and repair protective winter clothing consisting of liners or inner jackets and caps to all those employees designated above who are required to wear uniforms and whose work assignments regularly require them to perform duties out of doors during winter months. Liners for short jackets will be issued to Field Service personnel. The Company will stock at each station a reasonable quantity of galoshes for loan to Service employees on standby when such galoshes are required by weather conditions. The Company will provide gloves for Distribution and Station Operations employees. In addition, the Company will provide winter gloves for Service Consumption Technicians and Field Service employees.
The Company will continue to make the following articles of clothing available to eligible employees:
(a) Heavier winter stocking cap (as per sample).
(b) A totally quilted Ike jacket liner with open sleeves.
(c) 8-9 oz. double weaver (65% polyester/35% cotton twill) type of pants.
(d) A tight fitting (e.g., elastic) cuff on the sur coat liner.
(2) Work/Safety Shoes - The Company will continue to reimburse eligible employees for the purchase of American National Standard Institute (ANSI) approved work/safety shoes as defined below:
-39-
--
ARTICLE V[
when said shoes are no longer repairable as determined by supervision. Employees who elect to purchase shoes on their own may purchase the work shoe of their choice, including a good support type athletic shoe. These purchases are limited to a maximum of two (2) pair per year. Work shoes are to be repaired at the Company's cost before they are replaced. Meter Readers will be reimbursed up to the amounts specified below:
Effective Date of Increase
January 1,2001 January 1. 2002 January 1.2003 .lanuarv 1.2004
Reimbursement Amount $110.00 SII0.00 SI 15.00 $115.00
Employees are required to purchase their own work or safety shoes and all requests for reimbursement must be accompanied by an appropriate sales receipt. Employees (other than Service Consumption Technicians) will be reimbursed up to the amounts specified below:
January 1.2001 Januarv 1.2002 January 1. 2003 Januarv 1.2004
Work Shoes $110.00 $110.00 $115.00 $115.00
Safetv Shoes $145.00 $145.00 $145.00 $145.00
The maintenance/repair of work or safety shoes provided for herein shall be the employee's responsibility.
-41 -
AKTICLE Vll
ARTICLE VII Preamble
The parties agree that unit employees will be afforded not less than three options for medical insurance coverage for the First three (3) years of the contract and not less than two (2) options for the last year of the coniract. New employees, including Service Consumption Technicians (effective January 1, 2001). are eligible to select a provided option on the first of the month in which their second month anniversary occurs. All Service Consumption Technicians, including those hired after April 17. I*>ft7t will be eligible to enroll in all options January 1. 2001. The options are as set forth below. The provisions of this article, however, are merely to provide for the stated options, to memorialize the parties' agreements in the negotiation of the instant Collective Bargaining Agreement, and to highlight some of the provisions of the options provided. The actual specific provisions of each of the options are not set'forth herein, but are contained in the plan documents for each option, which are incorporated herein by reference. Such plan documents are available to unit employees as described below; reference must be made lo ihem regarding any issue of construction or application for each option's terms and benefits.
The Company and the Union express no preference between the options. Selection between the options will depend on an employee's and his/her family's individual circumstances. The Company agrees, prior to the open enrollment period of each year of this Agreement, to furnish all unit employees with plan summaries, a comparison chart of costs, benefits and responsibilities between the options, a what's new booklet and an individualized selection sheet, setting forth the. costs of each potential selection (or like materials that incorporate the same information), to afford unit employees with an informed basis to choose between the provided options. Employees must select one of the opiions within the open enrollment period of a given year, for his/her succeeding year's medical insurance coverage. The Company agrees to furnish all unit employees with the described information by November, but in any event, not less than 30 days before the last date of the open enrollment period of each (preceding) year. Employees are also eligible lo select health care options upon a qualified status change, in which event the same information will be provided.
The three options are as follows: (i) one or more HMOs, or other managed health care plans (one or more of which may be in the form of an exclusive provider arrangement, or EPA); (ii) a point of service plan; and (iii) the
-42-
Traditional Medical Plan.
In general terms, the plan types may be described as follows:
Article VII (Section I, paragraph c) refers to the coverage and provisions of the Traditional Medical Plan. Article VII, (Section 1, paragraphs a) and b) refer to additional healih care choices employees have at Open Enrollment. This chart was designed to assist employees in making health care decisions.
Plan Type
Health Maintenance Organization (HMO/EPA)
How It Works
Relative Advantages
You usually must select a primary care physician (PCP) from the HMO's pool of doctors and pay a small fixed amount for each visit. Typically, the PCP must approve any trips to specialists and non-emergency visits to HMO network hospitals.
You want to know in advance what your annual health cost will be, more or less. You'll need to be comfortable using only your HMO's physicians and hospitals and depending on your primary care doctor for referrals.
Point-of-Service Plan (POS)
Traditional Medical Plan*
These are plans administered by insurance companies or HMO's that let members go 10 providers without a PCP referral-for a price.
You want the coordinated care of an HMO with the safety net of being able to go to providers without a referral from the PCP.
You select your own doctors and hospitals and pay on a fee-forservice basis. You don't need a referral to see a specialist
Cost is not an issue and you have already established relationships with doctors who do not belong to a managed care network.
*The Traditional Plan has a Preferred Provider overlay. This is a network of doctors that offer plan discounted rates. Employees who use a PPO provider may have lower out-of-pocket expenses.
-43-
ARTICLE VII
With regard to the "HMO option," see paragraphs (A) below, the Company agrees to offer one or more HMOs or other managed health care plans, as part of the flexible benefits plan, through the term of this Agreement. The Company may change the identify of the HMOs or other plans on a year-to-year basis; however, the plans offered during open enrollment will remain in place through the succeeding contract year, as long as the plan continues to be offered.
With regard to the POS. the Company may modify the fees, design, and providers, subject to the Company's agreement, set forth below, to provide notice and afford the Union the opportunity for input.
With regard to the 'Traditional Medical Plan option," see paragraphs (C) below, the Company agrees to offer the plan through the term of this Agreement. The Company reserves the right, as specified below, to amend, alter or substitute the plan without the consent of the Union, so long as such revisions do not operate to reduce the benefit level.
The provision for dental benefits does not depend on an employee's selection of a medical coverage plan option, but applies to all employees, and is set forth in paragraph (5) below. Effective January 1, 1999, the provision for vision benefits does not depend on an employee's selection of a medical coverage plan option, but applies to all employees and is set forth in paragraph (4) below.
The parties have in this Agreement eliminated much of the language set forth in Article Vlll of the previous contract for purposes of ease and clarity of reference. and have incorporated the various plan documents herein by reference. Such elimination and incorporation, however, are not intended to diminish or otherwise affect, except as specifically agreed in the parlies' negotiation of the present Collective Bargaining Agreement, the terms conditions and benefits afforded under the prior contract, and associated language, including pertinent plan documents. To the extent of any conflict adverse to the rights and interests of unit employees, the terms and conditions of the prior agreement and/or applicable plan documents shall prevail. The parties agree that the options and benefits stated herein shall not be changed during the term of this Agreement, except as specifically allowed. The parties agree that any change in the options, or the terms, conditions and benefits of same, except as specifically permitted herein, must be noticed to the Union, and are subject to its rights under the National Labor Relations Act, and. as may be applicable the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
-44-
A. Option A: HMO Coverage |Plan document and benefits summary available from each offered HMO at address and phone number stated in the open enrollment documents.]
HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS - The Company will pay the full cost of the HMO coverage up to the full cost of the Traditional Medical Plan, with the employee or retiree bearing any cost in excess of the Traditional Plan. Effective January 1. 2001. the Share Care Fee Program (SCFP) will be used to calculate cost sharing. In selecting which HMO to offer, the Company will be sensitive to price, quality and the geographic concerns of the covered members. Effective January 1. 2002. office visit co-pays for all HMOs will be $10.00 and prescription drug co-pavs will be $5.00 generic and $10.00 brand name. The Company reserves the discretion to increase office visit co-pays and/or prescription co-pavs by no more than 50% during the third year and no more than 50% during the fourth year of the contract. The Company will notify Local 80 within sixty (60) days of any proposed changes to plan design (not including office visit and prescription co-pavs). to offer them an opportunity for input.
For an employee on leave of absence who is enrolled in an HMO, the monthly Company contribution shall be up to $7.50. For an employee on leave of absence under the Family Medical Leave Act, the Company's contribution shall be continued at the employee's active level for the duration of the leave as required by law.
B. Option B: Point of Service (POS) Coverage [Plan document and benefits summary available from BCBSM at address and phone number stated in the open enrollment documents.]
PREMIUM HEALTH POINT-OF-SERVICE (POS) PLAN - In the event the Company determines the need to make modifications to this plan, it will meet with Local #80 officers at least sixty (60) days prior to the implementation of said changes in order to afford Local #80 the opportunity to input regarding said changes.
C. Option C: Traditional Medical Plan
(1) The Company has made provisions for its employees (as part of a Flexible Benefits Plan) retirees and any of their eligible dependents to enroll for coverage in the Traditional Medical Plan based -45-
i
VII
on coverage and eligibility rules in the Traditional Medical Plan document. Effective January 1. 2001. new employees will be eligible on the first of the month in which their second month anniversary occurs. The following is a summary of some of the plan provisions. In the event of any interpretation, discrepancy, application and/or decision in specific circumstances, the official text or terms of the Plan document will govern. Detailed information on Benefit Plans is located in the Benefits Handbook, including information on the ERISA (Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974) appeal process for the Traditional Plan.
REVIEW OF INPATIENT ADMISSIONS AND MANDATORY SECOND SURGICAL OPINION FOR ELECTIVE SURGERY - As outlined in the Traditional Medical Plan document, the Utilization Review Organization ("URO") contracted by the Company must be informed of any hospital admission. URO does not apply to retirees for whom Medicare Part A & B is primary. The URO must be contacted prior to any non-emergency surgery to determine if a second opinion is required.
If you do not follow the procedures, or if you receive medical care not certified as medically necessary, you are responsible for part of the cost, as illustrated by some of the examples on the following chart:
IE YOU
For hospital admissions failure to follow utilization review process (contact URO at least 10 days before elective hospital stay, within one business day of an urgent admission and within 48 hours following an emergency admission), or fail to have your doctor provide timely medical information, but receive medical treatment which is later certified...
YOU MUST PAY
Half of one day's hospital room and board charges, based on the average daily room and board charge for the admission.
-46-
IF YOU
Do not obtain a required second surgical opinion ... Obtain more.costly, uncertified inpatient treatment when care in an alternative setting was appropriate...
Stay more days than certified as necessary...
Refuse to release medical information needed to evaluate the medical necessity of services received...
Retiree or surviving spouse fails to contact URO due to medical or mental impairment and they have no family members to make the contact...
Failure lo contact URO for select diagnostic procedures (CTScan. MRA. MRIor Myelogram) can result in...
First $100, plus 20% of remaining otherwise eligible hospital and doctor charges (up to a maximum of four uncertified days).
All related expenses until needed medical information is released. All related expenses until needed medical information is released.
First $100. plus 20% of remaining eligible hospital and doctor charges incurred on noncertified days (up to a maximum often uncertified days). First $50.00 (or $75.00), plus 20% of covered expenses.
Any costs you pay because you did not follow the procedures cannot be used to meet your deductible or co-pay requirements.
(l)(c)
MEDICAL CASE MANAGEMENT- Medical Case Management is an optional service provided by the URO for certain patients with serious and costly illnesses. The objective is to coordinate and monitor patient care and promote the earliest, maximum recovery or rehabilitation. Before URO is offered the Company reviews the case (on a confidential basis) and approves the service. The Company can discontinue the service at any time. The patient must agree to the offer of service and may discontinue use at any time.
(l)(d)
GENERAL - Any expenses that are not covered by the Traditional Plan document (i.e., charges over R & C, determina-
-47-
A
tions made by the URO that effects levels of reimbursement, etc.) and are the employees responsibility, cannot be used to meet deductibles and co-pays.
Charges in excess of reasonable and customary charges, which will be applied to all (out of PPO network) outpatient services as well as surgical and inpatient procedures, as determined under the Traditional Medical Plan, cannot be used to satisfy the annual deductible or annual co-pay maximum requirements of the Traditional Medical Plan.
All determinations made by the URO affect only the level of reimbursement for medical services under the Traditional Medical Plan. The decision to enter a hospital, to stay a longer or shorter period of time than determined by the URO, to have or not have a second surgical opinion, or to have or not have surgery or other medical services is solely the responsibility of the covered person or their legal guardian.
(])(e)
MEDICAL SERVICES CO-PAY - All employees and their dependents enrolled in Traditional Medical Plan are required to pay a co-pay on all expenses incurred above deductible amounts for covered medical expenses. The following chart illustrates the deductibles and co-pays for 2001 through 2004. Sponsored Dependents are treated like other dependents for purposes of determining co-pays and deductibles.
Employees With No Dependents
%of
Co-Pay
Year Deductible Co-Pay Maximum
2001
$250
25%
$750
2002
2003
2004
--
PHYSICAL EXAMINATIONS - Employees covered by the Traditional Plan will be eligible for a voluntary and confidential comprehensive physical as follows:
The following schedule for preventive care benetlts is available to all employees and eligible retirees* enrolled in the Traditional Medical plan option. Also, for 2001. spouses of active employees continue to be eligible for a pap smear every other year from 35 to 4? and every year after 50. a baseline mammography between 35 and 40 and every two years thereafter, and a PSA test for males 50 years of age and over every year thereafter. Effective January 1, 2002. Medicare eligible retirees and dependents of active employees and dependents of retirees enrolled in the Traditional Medical Plan option are eligible for preventive care as outlined below.
-49-
Adult Exam
AGE
Test Procedure Physical History, Examination and Written Report
18-34 35-49
50+
Frequency jn Years
3
2
I
Digital Rectal
1
(Win
1 (in
2002)*** 2002)***
Hemoccult Slides
--
* For 2001. retirees must be under Medicare Eligibility age and enrolled in Ihe Comprehensive Medical Plan.
** Baseline screening between 35-40; every two years thereafter. *** Refers to the change in protocol for 2002 and beyond. Note: Services deleted from LiveWell physicals are vision screen, audio-
gram and pulmonary
--
Immunization Diphtheria, pertussi. tetanus (DPT). oral polio virus, hib. hepatitis B DPT, oral polio virus, hib. hepatitis B DPT, oral polio virus, hib. hepatitis B (at doctor's discretion) Measles, mumps, rubella, hib. varicella-zoster virus DPT, oral polio virus DPTt oral polio virus MMR booster TD (tetanus, diphtheria)
These' Preventive Care Benefits are available within the Traditional Medical Plan with deductible and co-pays applying, or from select Live Well providers throughout the state. Effective January 1. 2002. these benefits are available with a $10 office visit co-pav in network and a $25 .office visit co-pay out-of-network. Deductibles will not apply. The plan participant must resolve any.billing discrepancies,.arising from delivery of these services. LiveWell providers will no longer be available to provide Preventive Care Benefits after 2002.
-51 -
Employees enrolled in the Traditional Plan or the P.O.S./P.P.O., will be allowed up to four (4) hours Company time to take a physical examination. Employees must provide one (1) week advance notice of proposed appointment dale and time.
(l)(g)
SUBSTANCE ABUSE ADMISSIONS - For substance abuse admissions, employees and dependents are responsible for co-payments and deductibles as follows:
- First admission - no co-pay.
- Second admission - employee pays co-pay - mandatory participation with EAP - co-pay refunded after certified by EAP <None>comp!etion of program.
- Third admission - employee pays co-pay - mandatory participation with EAP program.
- Fourth and subsequent admissions - no payments from plan.
Effective January 1. 2002. substance abuse visits are limited to 36 visits per calendar year, subject of plan co-pavs and deductibles. There is a per year maximum benefit of $25.000 for inpatient and outpatient services with a lifetime cap of $70.000. If plan benefits are exhausted, plan participants are eligible for a once per lifetime unlimited benefit to deal with serious substance abuse and/or mental health issues. Recipients of this benefit must agree to and follow a treatment plan.
(l)(h>
PSYCHIATRIC CARE COVERAGE LIMIT - Lifetime benefits - The coverage level (after annual deductible and co-pays) gradually decreases from 100% to 50% of eligible expenses (inpatient and outpatient) incurred during the lifetime ol'a covered person (see chart below).
If Paid Expenses During Lifetime Equal:
After Deductible and Co-Pay, The Plan Will Pay:
$0-$20,000
100%
$20,001 - $50,000
95%
$50,001 - $75,000
90%
$75,001 -$200,000
80%
$200,001 - $400,000
70%
$400,001 - $500,000
60%
$500,001 Plus -52-
50%
Effective January 1,_2002, menial health visits, are limited lo 36 visits per calendar year, subject to co-pavs and deductibles. Lifetime limits, as detailed.above, no longer apply.
(l)(i)
NEW HIRE PRE-EXISTING CONDITIN CLAUSE Effective January 1, 1998, for new hires or employees adding dependents, there will be no pre-existing conditions for Traditional Medical Plan.
(1)0)
TERMINATION CONTINUATION - In accordance with the law, when coverage ends fend of the month in which the termination occurs) the employee and his/her dependents will have the options lo continue coverage by paying the full cost of the premium plus 2%. If the law provides an increase or reduction in benefits, the Company shall meet and advise the Union prior to implementation.
(l)(k)
PILOT EMPLOYEE HOSPITAL BILL AUDIT AWARD Employees enrolled in the Traditional Medical Plan are eligible to share in savings by the Company when they identify and correct an error in hospital billing. The award is 50% of the savings to a maximum of $500. The determination of award is final and not subject lo the grievance procedure. This is a pilot program and may be discontinued at any time, at the sole discretion of the Company.
(l)(l)
DEPENDENTS - Employees may enroll dependents in the Traditional Plan based on eligibility as defined in the Plan document. Sponsored dependents, as defined in the Plan document, may be enrolled in the all Company sponsored health care plans that allow Sponsored.Dependents, for the full cost, and, effective January I. 2001. are eligible for all benefits as outlined in the Plan document, jncludjng prescription drugs and applicable preventive care. Effective January 1. 2001. Sponsored Dependents will be limited .to the.parents and child (ren) of the employee. Effective January 1. 2001 active employees may enroll, as dependents. Same Sex Partners who meet the eligibility requirements of the Plan document. Retirees can only cover the Same Sex Partners that they covered as an active
-53-
employee.. Coverage may continue for 19 to 23 year old dependents, as defined in the Plan Document, for an additional $25 per month ($15 each additional child). Effective January I. 21)01. coverage may continue for 19 to 25 year old dependents, as defined in the Plan document, as long as they are full-time students. If the dependent is not a full-time student they must live at home, make less than four (4) times the IKJ? limit and he dependent on the employee for 50% of their support (for 2000 four (4i times the IRS limit is $13.000).
(l)(m)
HEALTH CARE MAINTENANCE FEE (HCMF) AND SHARED CARE ACCESS FEE (SCAF) - Effective January 1, 2000 the SCAF is $295. Effective .lanuarv 1. 2001 the HCMF and the SCAF are being replaced with a Share Care Fee Program (SCFP).
(l)(n)
SHARED CARE FEE PROGRAM (SCFP) - Effective January 1.-2001. there is a SCFPof 6% of the cost of the medical plan the selects. The SCFP is 7% for 2002. 8% for 2003. 9% for 2004 and 10% for 2005. The SCFP. for a self-funded plan, is calculated on cost of each plan.based on the experience of all employees. pre-Medicare retirees and their dependents enrolled (Medicare retirees are costed separately.) Insured plans are community rated and are adjusted for the demographics of all covered lives of employees. pre-Medicare retirees and their dependents enrolled (Medicare retirees are costed separately). A composite rate will be used to determine employee cost sharing. Employees will pay the same for Employee Only. Employee & Child(ren). Employee & Spouse and Family coverage. In 2001. the SCFP will he capped at a maximum monthly employee contribution of $60. in 2002 the monthly SCFP will be $70. in 2003 the monthly SCFP will he $80. in 2004 the monthly SCFP cap will he $90 and in 2005 the monthly SCFP will he $100. This cap will apply to all medical plans.
-54-
Estimates of SCFP Costs
--
$58
These estimates reflect an average aggregate cost of all medical plans - employees will be responsible for a composite rate for the medical plan in which they enroll.
(l)(o)
LEAVE OFABSENCE - For an employee on a leave of absence, enrolled in the Traditional Medical Plan, the monthly Company contribution shall be up to $7.50. For an employee on a leave of absence under the Family and Medical Leave Act the Company contribution shall continue at the employee's active level for the duration of the leave, as required by law.
(l)(p)
MEDICAL - RETIREE/SURVIVING SPOUSE - Outlined below is a brief overview of medical costs for eligible retirees and eligible surviving spouses:
RETIREE
Shared Care Access Fee
Shared Care Fee Program
Service
Age
Related Fee Related Fee
--
The costs for the SCAF, Age Related Fee, and Service Related Fee apply until the retiree attains Medicare eligibility. Employees retiring on or after January 1.2002. will be responsible for the SCFP until the end of the month in which their 75th birthday occurs. The retiree is not reimbursed for Medicare Part B.
Employees who are hired on or after January 1.2001, and they retire from the Company, will he responsible for 50% of the cost of health care, based on coverage category. They will also be responsible for any Service Related fees or Age Related fees and plan co-pays and deductibles. The retiree will be responsible for 50 % of the cost of health care as long as the retiree opts for coverage. The Service Related fees and Age Related fees apply until the retiree attains Medicare eligibility.
"Replaces previous agreement on the $1.000 set aside for Employees and Surviving Spouses affected by the "2010" Agreement negotiated in 1997. This provision is rescinded with this new contract.
SURVIVING SPOUSE OF ACTIVE EMPLOYEES
Work Related Death Fully paid by Company except SCFP.
Non-Work Related Death Greater than ten years of service, spouse pays 20% of the Company's cost.
Less than 10 years of service, coverage is provided, followed by (3) years of COBRA.
Spouse pays:
First 4 Years
20% of Cost
After 4 Years COBRA (102%)
SURVIVING SPOUSE OF RETIREE
The spouse pays 20% of the Company's cost. The Surviving Spouse is not reimbursed for Medicare Part B.
Spouses of employees, who are hired on or after January 1. 2001. will continue to be responsible for 50% of the cost of health care, based on coverage category, when the retiree dies.
-56-
Thev will also continue to. be. responsible for any Service Related fees or Age Related fees and plan co-pays and deductibles. The Surviving Spouse will be responsible for 50% of the cost as long as the retiree opts for coverage. The Service Related fees and Age Related fees apply until the retiree would have attained Medicare eligibility.
(I)(q)
CLAIMS ADMINISTRATOR - The.Company has the right to amend, alter or substitute the Traditional Medical Plan or to substitute an insurance carrier or the Claims Administrator or the URO without the consent of the Union, provided the such a change shall not operate to reduce the benefit level. The management reports submitted to the Company by the Claims Administrator will contain only gross data. The Company will not request specific diagnosis or utilization data.
(l)(r)
EMERGENCY ROOM COVERAGE - If a covered person utilizes emergency room services for non-emergency situations, as determined by the Claims Administrator, benefits will be reduced as outlined in the Traditional Plan document. Effective January I. 2002. if services rendered in an emergency room are determined to be nonemergency by.the Claims Administrator, benefits will he reduced by $75 with the remainder paid as outlined in the, Traditional Plan document.
(l)(s)
HOSPICE CARE - Effective January 1, 1998, the Traditional Medical Plan will be amended to extend the Hospice Care Benefit to two hundred (200) days of inpatient or outpatient care.
(l){t)
NON-EMERCENCY TREATMENT OUTSIDE THE U.S. All non-emergency treatment rendered to any plan participant outside of the United States will limit plan payment to the reasonable and customary fee for the AMA-approved protocol of treatment. Reasonable and customary fees will be defined by the geographic region within which the participant lives.
(l)(u)
PREFERRED PROVIDER ORGANIZATION (PPO) - If a PPO is offered, it will be a supplement to the Traditional Medical Plan and all non-Medicare Plan participants are automatically
-57-
--
enrolled at no additional cost. Non-Medicare eligible participants (actives and retirees) will pay $20 charge for each office visit, all other covered medical services will only be paid after deductibles and a 10% co-payment is met. Effective January 1. 2002. nonMedicare eligible participants (actives and retirees) will pay $10 charge for each office, visit, and all other covered medical services will only be paid after deductibles and a 10% co-payment is met. Effective February 25, 1998, Medicare eligible retirees / spouses will not be subject to the office visit co-pays. If lab or x-ray services are required, plan deductibles and a 10% copayment will apply. When inpatient or outpatient hospital services are provided through a PPO, the annual plan deductible and 10% co-payment will apply.
(l)(v)
CHIROPRACTIC COVERAGE - Effective January 1. 2002. employees, retirees and their dependants are eligible for services. covered by the Plan Document and rendered by a chiropractor. Plan deductibles and co-pays will apply as outlined in the Plan Document and plan benefits are limited to $500 per covered life per calendar year.
mtw)
HEARING TEST. EXAM AND AID COVERAGE - Effective January 1. 2002? employees and dependants are eligible for up to $400 every three years for an exam, test and appliance. Plan deductibles and co-pavs apply.
(2) PRESCRIPTION DRUG CO-PAY PLAN - As part of the Traditional Medical Plan participants are enrolled in a program that will allow them to get prescription drugs with a co-pay. Participants will pay 10% co-pay with a minimum of $6.50 and a maximum of $17.50 per prescription drug order or refill ordered by a licensed physician. Effective January 1. 2002. participants will pay $5.00 for generic drugs and $10.00 for brand name drugs per prescription drug order or refill ordered bv a licensed physician. If mail order is offered, it will be available to all Traditional Plan participants, effective January 1, 1998, the cost for a three-month supply will be $12.00, and effective January 1. 2002. the cost will be $10.00 for the cost of generic and $15.00 for brand name drugs. On January 1, 1999, the Company will implement a closed formulary by selected / therapeutic classed (example, cholesterol reduction medications, gastointesinal agents
-58-
and anti-inflammatory drugs) for participant in the Traditional plan. Overthe counter drugs, diet supplements, reducing aids and prescriptions used for cosmetic purposes will not be covered by this program.
(3) EXCLUSIVE PROVIDER ARRANGEMENT (EPA) - EPAs are managed care plans that are funded by the Company. When these plans are offered to employees (as part of a Flexible Benefits Plan) and retirees, the terms and conditions of these plans will be determined by the Company. The existing one and a half million ($ 1.500,000) dollar life time limit will be applicable and transferable between self-funded plans.
(4) VISION PLAN - Effective January I, 1999 the Company will make provisions for employees and their eligible dependents to be covered by a Vision Plan. For the term of this contract, the Company will pay 50% of the cost of this plan.
(5) GROUP DENTAL PLAN - The Company has made provisions for its employees (as part of a Flexible Benefits Plan) and its retirees and any of their eligible dependents to enroll for coverage in the Traditional Dental Plan based on coverage and eligibility rules in the Traditional Dental Plan. Dental coverage will become effective for new employees on the first of the month in which their second month anniversary occurs. During the term of this agreement coverage for eligible active employees, covered retirees and eligible dependents will be fully paid. Sponsored dependents, as defined in the plan document, may be enrolled in the Traditional Dental Plan, for the full cost. Effective January 1, 2001. coverage may continue for age 19 to 25 year old dependants at no cost.
Employees on a leave of absence will pay the full cost of coverage. For an employee on a leave of absence under the Family Medical Leave Act, the Company's contribution will be continued at the employees active level for the duration of the leave as required by law.
The employees deductible and co-payments for the Traditional Dental Plan are as follows:
CROWNS/ DEDUCTIBLE PREVENTIVE BASIC MAJOR BRIDGES ORTHODONTIA
$25/$50
0%
40% 40%
40%
-59-
Effective January I, 2002, the plan participant's deductible and co-payments for the Traditional Dental Plan are as follows:
DEDUCTIBLE
PREVENTIVE BASIC
MAJOR
CROWNS/ BRIDGES ORTHODONTIA
$50/$100
20% 20%
The Traditional Dental Plan has a $900 maxiniuin annual benefit, effective January I, 1998 the annual maximum benefit shall be raised to $1,000, effective January I, 1999 the annual maximum benefit shall be raised to $1,050 and effective January I, 2000 the annual maximum benefit shall be raised to $ 1,100. Effective January 1. 2002. the annual maximum benefit. per covered life, shall he raised to $1.150. There is a lifetime orthodontia limit of $1,500. Effective January 1. 2002. the lifetime orthodontia limit is $1.250 per covered life.
Note: The following benefit changes (Physical Exam*;. FPOM lnNetwork Office Visit Co-pays. Chiropractic Care. Hearing Test and Aid Coverage and Dental changes) as written shall be effective January 1? 2002. or with the first full plan year following the merger with DTE Energy. If there is no merger with DTE Energy the benefit levels as provided for under thg prior contract as thev relate to the said areas of benefits if any, shall continue in effect and these new provisions shall not become part of the Traditional Medical and Dental Plans.
-60-
ARTICLE VIII INCOME PROTECTION
Preamble
ARTICLE VHI
The parties agree that unit employees will be provided with a retirement (pension) benefit plan (which includes, in part, a surviving spouse annuity benefit), an investment benefit plan, a group life insurance benefit plan, and a group accidental death and dismemberment plan. The benefits are, in broad terms, as set forth below. The provisions of this article, however, are merely to provide for the stated benefits, to memorialize the parties' agreements in the negotiation of the instant collective bargaining agreement, and to highlight some of the provisions of the benefits provided. The actual, specific provisions of each of the benefits are not set forth herein, but are contained in the plan documents for each benefit, which are incorporated herein by reference. Such plan documents are available to unit employees, upon request, from Michigan Consolidated Gas Company ("Company"). Reference must be made to plan documents regarding any issue of construction or application for each benefit's terms and options.
The benefits are as follows: (I) Michigan Consolidated Gas Company Retirement Plan for Employees Covered by Collective Bargaining Agreements ("Retirement Plan"), as amended (including a surviving spouse annuity benefit), (2) MichCon Investment and Stock Ownership Plan ("Investment Plan"), as amended, (3) Group Life Insurance Plan, and (4) Group Accidental Death and Dismemberment Plan.
With regards-to the Retirement Plan, see paragraph (1) below, unit employees are eligible for coverage under this plan if they are a union employee of the Company, are at least 18 years old, and have completed at least 1,000 hours of service during any 12-month period that begins on the employee's first day of employment with the Company or any anniversary thereof.
If any employee who is retired because of total and permanent disability becomes able to work, he or she may, at the option of the Company, be removed from retirement and offered re-employment with the Company. If he or she is removed from retirement and offered re-employment, that employee shall be given the job he or she held at retirement if that job is in existence and such employee has the capacity to perform that job. If the job is not in existence or the employee does not have the capacity to perform that job, he or she shall be
-61 -
ARTICLE VIII
offered another position without loss of pay. If he or she refuses to accept the job which is offered, that employee shall lose his or her eligibility for subsequent benefits as a total and permanent retiree. In such event, his or her rights under the Retirement Plan shall be the same as those of an employee who voluntarily resigns, less benefits received as of the date of such termination. No employee who is retired under total and permanent'disability shall lose any rights under the Retirement Plan by virtue of earnings because of employment as long as such earnings are not sufficient to constitute a forfeiture of total and permanent disability benefits under Social Security.
Employees who retire under the 30-and-out provision of the Retirement Plan may seek employment elsewhere without suffering any reduction in his or her 30-and-out pension supplement.
With regard to the MichCon Investment and Stock Ownership Plan, see paragraph (2) below, the Company has made provision for its full-time employees who have reached the age of twenty-one (21) and completed one (I) year of service to enroll in the Investment Plan. The Company reserves the right to amend, modify, suspend or terminate the Investment and Stock Ownership Plan, as set forth in the Plan Document.
With regard to the Group Life Insurance Plan, see paragraph (3) below, benefit entitlement for life insurance shall become effective the first of the month in which a new employee's ninetieth (90th) day of employment occurs. Life insurance shall also be provided for retirees, as set forth below.
With regard to the Group Accidental Death and Dismemberment Plan, see paragraph (4) below, new employees will be eligible for this benefit on the first of the month following the employee's date of hire.
The parties have in this agreement eliminated much of the language set forth in Article VIII of previous contracts, for purposes of ease and clarity of reference, and have incorporated the various plan documents by reference. Such elimination and incorporation, however, are not intended to diminish or otherwise affect, except as specifically agreed in the parties' negotiation of the present collective bargaining agreement, the terms, conditions and benefits afforded under the prior contract, and associated language, including pertinent plan documents. To the extent of any conflict adverse to the rights and interests of unit employees, the terms and conditions of the prior agreement and/or plan documents
-62-
shall prevail. The parties agree that the options and benefits stated herein shall not be changed during the term of this agreement, except as specifically allowed. The parties agree that any change in any benefit plan, or the terms. conditions, and benefits of same, except as specifically permitted herein, must be noticed to the Union, and are subject to its rights under the National Labor Relations Act, and, as may be applicable, the collective bargaining agreement.
(1) Retirement Plan - Listed below is a brief description of Michigan Consolidated Gas Company Retirement Plan for Employees Covered by Collective Bargaining Agreements ("Retirement Plan") benefits as agreed to by the Company and Local #80. The Company has the right to amend, withdraw, or terminate the Retirement Plan as provided in the Plan Document. The official terms of the Retirement Plan will govern in the event of any interpretation, discrepancy, application and/or decision in specific circumstances.
(a) Retirement Notice - Employees who elect to retire with less than four months but at least thirty days prior notification may use their earned or accrued vacation during the period between notice of and actual retirement.
(b) Retirement Plan Performance - The Company agrees to meet with the Local #80 officers annually in order to inform the Union Officers about the investment performance of the MichCon Master Trust Employee Retirement Plan during the previous year. In addition, the Company will provide the officers of Local #80 with a quarterly pension report.
(c) Retirement Plan Supplement - If an employee retires prior to his/her Social Security normal retirement age, with at least 30 years of credited service, he/she may receive an early retirement supplement. For retirements from January 1, 2001 through December 31, 2001, the total minimum monthly pension benefit payable to age 62, including the "supplement," will be $2.050. For retirements from January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2002. the total minimum monthly pension benefit payable to age 62. including the "supplement," will be $2.050. For union members retiring on a date from January I, 2Q0j through December 31, 2003. the total minimum monthly pension benefit payable to age 62, including the "supplement," will be $2,100. For retirements from January 1, 2004 through December 31,2004, the total -63-
minimum monthly pension benefit payable to age 62, including the "supplement," will be $2,100. Union members between the ages of 62 and Social Security normal retirement age may elect to continue his/her Company pension supplement until Social Security normal retirement age or begin drawing on any Social Security benefits prior to that date. Members may elect either option but not both. Each member will be required to sign a Social Security Release form and Pension Withholding Authorization form allowing recovery of overpayments should the retiree begin receipt of Social Security benefits and not advise the Company. If an employee retires with 30 years of credited service before age 55, the minimum monthly pension benefit shown above will be reduced to reflect the number of additional years the minimum monthly pension benefit will be received.
(d) Early Retirement Reduction Factor - The Company subsidizes the reduction factor used to determine pensions for employees who retire under age 62. Employees retiring between 55 and 62 will have their pension reduced by 5% per year. True actuarial reduction factors will be used for retirements prior to age 55 and combined with the subsidized rate to form a blended rate.
(e) Early Retirement Date - You may retire anytime after your 55th birthday, provided your age (as of your last birthday) plus your Years of Credited Service (as of the last anniversary of your employment commencement date) total at least 70. If you want to retire at age 60, you must have at least 10 Years of Credited Service. You may retire earlier than your 55th birthday if you have at least 30 Years of Credited Service. If you retire early, you may choose to have your pension payments begin immediately on your 65th birthday or on the first of any month between these dates. If you choose to have payments begin at age 62 or later, you will receive a benefit figured the same way us the normal retirement benefit based on your Years of Credited Service and final average monthly earnings as of the day you retired. Payments will be smaller than if you had worked until your normal retirement date.
(0 Normal Retirement Date - Your Normal Retirement Age under the Retirement Plan is 65. You will be eligible for a Normal Retirement Benefit on your Normal Retirement Date - the first of the month that falls on or follows your 65th birthday.
-64-
(g) Normal Retirement Benefit - Under the Retirement Plan, the amount you will receive each month as a Normal Retirement Benefit depends on several factors: (I) your Final Average Monthly Earnings, or FAME (see below). Note that FAME includes shift premiums and sales commissions, but not overtime or premium pay; (2) your Years of Credited Service; (3) the Covered Compensation limit - each year the IRS determines the maximum amount of earnings on which Social Security taxes and benefits are paid. This is called the taxable wage base. Covered compensation is the average of taxable wage bases for the 35-year period ending with the year you reach your Social Security normal retirement age. The average changes each year; and (4) your monthly annuity benefit, if any, under any other pension plan of the Company. Your monthly normal retirement benetlt is calculated according to the following formula:
Step 1. 1.33% X Final Average Monthly Earnings
1.33% X Years of Credited Service
(Final Average Monthly Earnings (FAME) is the highest average of your monthly earnings for the best 60 consecutive months in the last 15 years prior to your retirement or termination date. Normally, this is your last 60 months of work.)
PLUS
Step 2. 0.5% X (Final Average Monthly Earnings - Covered Compensation) X Years of Credited Service (up to a maximum of 35 years)
Step 3. The amount of your monthly benefit, if any, payable under any other pension plan of the Company or an affiliated company.
The normal retirement benefit described above is the amount you would receive under a Single Life Annuity - that is, monthly payments for life that end when you die, with no payments to a beneficiary after your death. If you are married, or if you choose some other way to receive your benefits, the amount you will receive will be somewhat less, to account for payments after your death to your spouse or other beneficiary.
-65-
(h) Forms of Pension Payment
(i) Standard Forms (Automatic unless you elect otherwise, with spousal consent, if applicable)
(a) Single Life Annuity: If you are not married at the lime you retire, you will receive a pension for the rest of your lifetime only, with no survivor payments at death.
(b) 50% Joint and Survivor Annuity: If you are married when you retire, you will receive a 50% Joint and Survivor Annuity. You will receive a reduced monthly pension as long as you and your spouse both live. If your spouse dies, your benefit increases to the unreduced amount. If you die, your spouse receives 50% of your reduced monthly pension. Reductions are based on your age and your spouse's age at the lime of your retirement.
(ii) Alternate Forms (Spousal consent required if married)
(a) Single Life: Monthly payments for the rest of your lifetime with no survivor benefits at death.
(b) Life Annuity with 10 Years Certain: You will receive reduced monthly benefits for your lifetime. If you die prior to receiving 120 payments, payment will continue to named beneficiary until 120 payments are made.
(c) Joint and Survivor Annuity (50%, 66-2/3% or 100%): You will receive adjusted monthly benetlts for life. If your spouse is your beneficiary and predeceases you, your benefit will increase to the Single Life annuity amount. When you die, 100%, 66-2/3% or 50% of your benefit amount will be continued to your beneficiary for life.
(d) Joint and Survivor Annuity with 10 Years Certain (50%, 66-2/3% or 100%): You will receive adjusted monthly benefits for life. If your spouse is your beneficiary and predeceases you, your benefit increases to the Single Life annuity amount. -66-
--
ARTICLE VIII any employee who is not a participant in the Plan.
(3) Group Life Insurance -Active employees, as part of the Flexible Benefits Plan, will be eligible for Basic Life insurance equal to 1/2 times annual base wage, fully paid by the Company. New employees will be eligible for this benefit the first of the month in which their second month anniversary occurs. In addition, each employee shall be eligible to purchase additional life insurance coverage up to 4-1/2 times base wage. Effective January 1. 2002. life insurance coverage for spouses of active employees will increase from a $1.500 Company paid benefit to a $10.000 Company paid benefit. The life insurance for retirees will begin reducing by 2% per month each month following retirement to a minimum of $15,000. If an employee enrolled in 1/2 times pay and then retired, the coverage will remain at !/2 times annual base wage and reduce by 2% per month to $15,000, if needed. The Company will pay the first $12,000 in full and the retiree will pay for coverage in excess of $12,000. Effective January 1. 1998, the Company will pay the first $15,000 in full and the retiree will pay for coverage in excess of $ 15,000.
(4) Accidental Death and Dismemberment - Accidental Death and Dismemberment (AD&D) insurance equal to 1/2 times annual base wage, fully paid by the Company. Effective January ). 2003. this will increase to one (1) times annual base wage fully paid by the Company. New employees will be eligible for this benefit on the first of the month in which their second month anniversary occurs. In addition, each employee shall be eligible to purchase additional AD&D coverage up to 4-1/2 times annual base wage, for a combined employee/employer paid maximum of 5 times annual base wage. Effective January I. 2003. employees will he eligible to purchase additional AD&D cove rage of 4 times annual hase wage, for a combined employee/employer paid maximum of 5 times annual hase wage.
-74-
ARTICLE IX
(1) Company Seniority - Company seniority is defined as:
a) The total of an employee's length of service with the Company prior to June 12, 1960, plus that employee's length of service within the bargaining unit thereafter, unbroken in either case by any event specified in paragraph 4) hereof, provided that such employee was a member of the bargaining unit on June 12, 1960;
b) The total of an employee's length of service within the bargaining unit prior to June 12, 1960, plus his or her length of service within the bargaining unit thereafter, provided that such employee was an employee of the Company but not a member of the bargaining unit on June 12, 1960, and provided further that his or her total length of service with the Company is unbroken by any event specified in paragraph 4) hereof; or
c) The total of an employee's length of service within the bargaining unit, unbroken by an event specified in paragraph 4) hereof, provided the employee was hired as a new employee subsequent to June 12, 1960.
d) December 3. 2000. shall he used as the Company Seniority Date for all employees who were employed in the Customer Service Department (Customer Service. GRAT/New Service and Station Assistant Units) on December 3. 2000.
Company seniority shall be computed by the applicable definition. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this paragraph 1). Company seniority of the employees in the Building Maintenance r Section of the Real Estate Department shall be subject to the provisions of the letter dated November 8, 1962 from the Company to the Union.
(2) Departmental Seniority - Department seniority is defined as an employee's length of service, within the bargaining unit in a particular department, unbroken by an event specified in paragraph 4) hereof. Departmental seniority shall be separately computed for the following departments: Distribution, Customer Service (see Customer Service section of contract), Meter Reading, Metering, Property Operations and Maintenance. Property Maintenance Operations, Field Service Operations. Stock and Transportation Departments.
-75-
(3) Seniority of Laid-Qff Employees - Employees laid off by the Company shall continue to accrue Company and departmental seniority for a period of three (3) years.
(4) Loss of Company and Departmental Seniority - An employee shall lose both Company and departmental seniority if:
a) The employee resigns;
b) The employee is discharged and not reinstated;
c) The employee fails to comply with ihe provisions of Article XII; paragraph (6);
d) The employee was hired prior to June 12, 1960, and he or she is laid off for a continuous period exceeding such employee's length of continuous service with the Company
e) The employee was hired on or after June 12, 1960, and he or she is laid off for a continuous period exceeding thirty-six (36) months.
(5) Employees Transferred Outside the Bargaining Unit - Any member of the bargaining unit who voluntarily transfers to a Non-Union position or to a position within another MichCon bargaining unit as a result of a successful job bid may, either at the election of the employee or the Company, be returned to his or her former classification within the Local #X0 bargaining unit without loss of seniority at any time within ninety (90) days from the date of such transfer. Effective March 1, 1995, if he or she is reassigned to the bargaining unit after said ninety (90) day period, such employee shall not be entitled to any department or Union seniority he or she had at the time of leaving the bargaining unit, and he or she will not be assigned to any classification within the bargaining unit until the then members of the bargaining unit have had an opportunity to fill such classification under the provisions of Article X.
(6) Loans Outside the Bargaining Unit - With the exception of the Customer Service Department (sec Customer Service section of contract). When the Company loans Union members to work outside the bargaining unit, and such work is the same as the work normally performed by members of the bargaining unit, employees shall be elected for loan from volunteers who are qualified in the needed classification on the basis of departmental seniority; provided that the Company may select, without
-76-
regard to seniority, any employee who volunteers to perform any job outside of the bargaining unit if such job is not covered by the Classification of Work and Wages. No employee who is loaned under the provisions of this paragraph shall lose any seniority or other status by reason of such loan.
(7) Revised Seniority List - The revised seniority lists, have established the seniority status of each employee listed thereon. The Company shall, whenever a large transfer of Union employees between departments takes place, and not less often than annually, furnish the Union with current seniority lists which shall be deemed to be accepted by the Union except to the extent that exception thereof is noted in writing within thirty (30) days after delivery of such revised list to the Union. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event an error is discovered in any revised seniority list and called to the attention of the Company, correction of the error shall be made; provided that the Company shall not be required to change any action with has been based on the list containing the error.
(8) Breaking Seniority Ties - Ties in departmental seniority shall be broken by Company seniority. Ties in Company seniority shall be broken by the first of the following factors which is applicable lo the employees tied in a specific situation: a) Date of employee's application for employment from which he or she was hired; b) Date of employment examination by Company doctor, or c) Date of birth, with the eldest employee being given preference on the seniority list.
-77-
ARTlCLfi X
ARTICLE X
(1) Advanced Assignment Opportunities - Opportunities for advanced assignment for promotion shall depend upon the need for additional employees in higher classified jobs.
--
(2) Job Vacancy Location List - When the Company tlnds that such need exists, it shall furnish the Union a list showing the location of such job vacancy, the employees in the classification from which advancements will be made, and the departmental seniority of such employees. See Filling Vacancies, Article XI, also see Letter of Agreements.
(3) Filling a Job Vacancy by Movement - When a vacancy and a surplus / need occur concurrently, the provisions of Article X shall be applied before the provisions of Article XI. No vacancy, at any location, shall be filled by advanced assignment until the employees in the same classification and department who are performing, or who have satisfactorily performed, work which is similar in nature to the work to be performed where the vacancy exists, and who have the highest departmental seniority, are given the opportunity to move to the location or shift where the vacancy exists. Employees in the Distributions, Metering, Property Operation and Maintenance, Property Maintenance Operations, Stock. Transportation, Field Service Operations. Meter Reading Departments and the Customer Service Department may submit their choice(s) in order of preference for moving laterally from one location to another within their department. The employee's choice(s) can be amended at any time prior to a vacancy being posted provided that no change in preference will be permitted with respect to a declared vacancy once the vacancy is posted. Any employee not submitting his or her choice(s) for lateral moves will not be considered for such moves. No more than one {1) employee will be moved as a result of one (1) original vacancy.
(4) Semi-Annual Ratings - With the exception of the Customer Service Department, all employees covered by this Agreement shall be rated by the -78-
Company semi-annually as qualified or not qualified by reason of knowledge, training, ability, skill and efficiency on the work they are currently performing in their job classification. In the event an employee is rated as not qualified, the reason therefore shall be given to the employee. A list of the ratings of employees in each department shall be forwarded to the Union office.
(5) Filling a Job Vacancy by Advanced Assignment - With the exception of the Customer Service Department, after such movement as provided in paragraph 3) above, the vacancy shall be filled by advanced assignment in accordance with the following:
a) Only those employees shall be eligible for advanced assignment who are in the next lower classification group and who have been rated by the Company (on semi-annual ratings) as qualified and who are satisfactorily performing, or have satisfactorily performed at a group level immediately below the group in which the job opening exists, work of a nature similar to the work to be performed in such higher classified job. If no employee in the next lower classification bids for said job opening, the Company will continue to canvass employees in the next lower classifications who have been rated by the Company (on semi-annual ratings) as qualified and who are satisfactorily performing at a group level, below the group in which the job openings exist, work of a nature similar to the work to be performed in such higher classified job.
b) Employees not eligible for advanced assignment because they have been rated as not qualified but who have sufficient departmental seniority shall be rated again before any selection for advanced assignment is made. In the event an employee is again rated as not qualified, the reason therefore shall be given to the employee. Employees remaining not qualified upon such re-rating, and therefore not advanced, shall have recourse to the grievance procedure.
c) Among employees so eligible, selection of those to be offered advance assignment will be made on the basis of departmental seniority. Employees in the Field Distribution Operations, Metering, Property Operation and Maintenance, Property Maintenance Operations, Transportation, Field Service Operations, and Field Meter Reading Departments, desiring advanced assignment opportunities, shall submit their choice(s) in order of preference with respect to the position(s) and
-79-
location(s) where they would accept an advanced assignment opportunity. The employee's choice(s) can be amended at any time prior to a vacancy being posted, provided that no change in preference will be permitted with respect to a declared vacancy once the vacancy is posted. Any employee not submitting his or her choice(s) with respect to advanced assignment opportunities will not be considered for such opportunities. If special skills are necessary to perform the higher classified job, only those employees will be selected who possess such special skills. If physical fitness is a factor, determination of the employee's qualification shall be made by the Company doctor.
d) Prerequisite skill qualifications, where required in certain classifications, shall be described in the Classification of Work and Wages. To be eligible for assignment to such a classification, an employee must possess and satisfactorily demonstrate such prerequisite skill qualifications in the mannerspecified in the classification prior to advanced assignment. Where licenses are a prerequisite skill, the employee must exhibit possession of such license before placement on advanced assignment.
e) If an employee fails to qualify for an upgrading, they will have to wait six (6) months before they will be given another opportunity for the same upgrading.
(6) Written Details of Movements and Advance Assignments - The Company will furnish the Union written details of all movements of employees and advanced assignments made in accordance with the provisions of this Article.
(7) Removal of an Ineligible Kmployec From Advanced Assignment - If an employee has been placed on advanced assignment and it is determined within the qualifying period thereafter that another eligible and qualified employee was entitled to such assignment because of his or her departmental seniority, the Company will forthwith terminate the assignment made and place the employee having the greater departmental seniority on such assignment. The qualification of the eligible employee will remain dependent upon his actual work in the higher classification for the specified time. The time worked will remain to the credit of the employee whose assignment is terminated in the event he or she is later placed on the same advanced assignment.
-80-
(8) Credits Accumulated on Temporary Assignment - In the event the Company shall request an employee to perform the duties of a higher classification without placing him or her on advanced assignment in accordance with the provisions hereof, for a period sufficient to qualify the employee for promotion to the higher classification, it shall be conclusively presumed that a job vacancy in such higher classification exists. In such event, the provisions hereto relating to the filling of job vacancies by movement of employees and by advanced assignments shall govern the filling of such vacancy. If, under such provisions, the employee who has performed the duties of the higher classification is entitled to such promotion, the employee entitled thereto will be placed on advanced assignment for the higher classification and will be paid the rate for the higher classification; provided, however, that he or she must serve the normal qualifying period specified for the higher classification and meet all other requirements for such classification prior to being promoted thereto. The employee who has performed the duties of the higher classification and has not been promoted shall receive no credit toward qualifying for the higher classification despite any other provision herein contained to the contrary.
(9) Failure to Meet Requirements of Higher Classification - In the event any employee who is placed on advanced assignment for promotion to a higher classification fails to meet the requirements for that classification during the qualifying period specified therein, the Company shall have the right to terminate his or her assignment. Any employee who is placed on advanced assignment for promotion to a higher classification also shall have the right to terminate such assignment during the qualifying period, provided the employee shall not be entitled to credits for time spent on advanced assignment and the higher rate of pay received during the advanced assignment period, when a employee returns to his or her former classification.
ARTICLE XI
ARTICLE XI
(1) Movement and Transfers-This Article relates to movement and transfer of employees other than under the provisions of Article X. For the .Customer Service Dcpartment,.see. exceptions as outlined in the Customer Service Department section of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
(2) Special Skills - An employee with special skills may be transferred to any department where an opening exists for those skills, provided that the opening cannot be filled by employees presently in that department. In selecting said employee(s), the Company will first canvass the employees having said special skill, and if there are no volunteers, the Company will transfer the employee(s) with the lowest seniority having said skill: General Carpenters / Electricians / Plumbers, General Mechanics, Mechanics, Equipment Technicians, Drafting employees and Senior Welders. Welders and Welder Apprentices.
(3) Seniority Rights When Transfers Are Made - When transfers are made between departments covered by this Agreement, the transferred employees shall continue to accumulate seniority in their former department for a period of six (6) months. At the end of six (6) months, the seniority of the transferred employees in their new department shall be started as of the date of transfer and their accumulation of seniority in their old department shall terminate, with the employee's accrued seniority in their old department remaining unchanged and to their credit.
(4) Movements and Transfers Within a Department - When the Company declares that a surplus of employees exists in a classification within a department at a particular location, and that additional employees in such classification are needed at another location in the same department, movement and transfer will be accomplished as follows:
a) Employees in such classification at the location where the surplus exists and who are performing or have satisfactorily performed work which is similar in nature to the work available at the new location will be given preference on the basis of departmental seniority in moving to such new locations.
b) If no employee in such classification at the location where the surplus exists desires to move, the employees in such classification at such loca-82-
ARTlCLIi XI
tion, having the lowest departmental seniority, and who are performing or have satisfactorily performed work which is similar in nature to the work available at the new location, shall be transferred to the new location; provided, however, that the Union officers and departmental representatives referred to in Article II, paragraph 8), shall not be required to transfer in this situation without their consent.
c) If no employee in such classification at the location where the surplus exists are so qualified, but some employees in such classification at such location desire to move, the Company shall designate the employees to be transferred, taking into consideration their departmental seniority, knowledge, and ability.
d) Lateral Moves Prior to Filling Vacancies
Whenever the need exists to fill a vacancy at any location, any employee who has satisfactorily performed work which is similar in nature to the work to be performed in the classification declared vacant at the station involved may move laterally into the section in which the opening is available, prior to the filling of the vacancy at the station as provided by Article XI, 3). Selection will be made on a departmental seniority basis from the employees who have given the Company prior written notice of their desire to do so. No more than one (I) move will be allowed from any one section to another as a result of the original vacancy or vacancies.
(5) Transfers Between Depurtmcnts - When the Company declares that a permanent surplus of employees exists within a department and additional employees are needed in another department, transfers shall be made on departmental seniority, with the high seniority employee being given preference in regard to transferring. If no employees desire to move, the employee or employees having the lowest departmental seniority shall be transferred; that the Union officers and departmental representatives referred to in Article II, paragraph 8), shall, for the purpose of transfer, have top seniority rights. This paragraph shall be applicable to the vacancies resulting in departments with the need for additional employees after Article X has been applied to the original vacancy(ies) in that department. Employees possessing special skills as defined in Article XI; (2) may be excluded from transfer, pursuant to this provision, if no surplus exists in their classification. If, however, surplus exists in a special skill classification, employees will be transferred in accordance with this provision.
-83-
(6) Loans Between Departments - When the Company declares that a temporary surplus of employees exists within a department and additional employees are needed in another department, loans shall be made as follows:
a) If the loan involves a work assignment in which the employee reports to his or her own headquarters at the beginning of the shift and returns at the end of the shift, employees shall be assigned work in the borrowing department according to departmental seniority of the employees available on that shift at that location.
b) If the loan involves a work assignment in the borrowing department, which is in the same location, employees shall be loaned first by canvassing for volunteers and second by assignment of those lowest in departmental seniority within the loaning area. Where the work assignment requests the development of skills, those employees who have developed such skills on previous loans will be loaned first according to departmental seniority.
c) If the loan is for an extended period in which the employee reports at the beginning of the shift to the borrowing department at a different location, employees shall be loaned first by canvassing the loaning department for volunteers and second by assignment of those lowest in departmental seniority within the loaning department; except that the Union officers and departmental representatives referred to in Article II, (8), shall not be loaned in this situation without their consent. Where the work assignment requires the development of skills, those employees who have developed such skills on previous loans will be loaned first according to departmental seniority.
d) Employees possessing special skills as defined in Article XI; (2) may be excluded from loan pursuant to this provision, if no surplus exists in their classification. If, however, a surplus exists in a special skill classification, employees will be loaned in accordance with this provision.
Employees may be loaned on a basis other than as above prescribed; provided that in such event the method of bidding on such loans, the method of moving employees between departments as the loans terminate, the method of calling for additional employees, and any other part of the loaning procedure shall be by mutual agreement between the Union and the Company.
-84-
--
ARTICLE XII
employee shall be eniitled to all sick leave credits previously accrued and nol used prior to his or her layoff.
(5) Rights of Employee Regarding Insurance Plan, Retirement Plan, etc. While an employee is on the preferred recall list, or if he or she is recalled within such period, or if his or her employment is terminated without recall, the employee's rights under the Group Life Insurance Plan, Retirement Plan, MichCon Traditional Medical Plan or Health Maintenance Insurance Plans, Group Dental Plan, Surviving Spouse Annuity Plan and Prescription Drug Co-Pay Plan shall be governed by the provisions of such plans.
(6) Notice of Recall and Reporting for Work - Noiice of recall shall be mailed by registered mail to the employee's last address on the Company's records. It is the employee's responsibility to provide the Company with any address changes. The employee so notified must, within seven (7) days after such notice is mailed, report for an interview or advise the Company of his or her intentions with respect to such notice recall. Failure to report or advise the Company, as provided above, or failure to accept a job as offered in the department from which the employee was laid off shall result in his or her removal from the recall list and shall void such employee's seniority rights. Failure to accept a job as offered in any other department shall not alter his or her place on the preferred recall list, nor alter the employee's seniority rights.
(7) Seniority Rights of Union Officers, Departmental Representatives and Executive Board Members - The Union officers and departmental representatives referred to in Article II, (8), and up lo thirty-five (35) Executive Board members shall, for the purpose of layoff, have top seniority rights.
-88-
ARTICLE XIII
ARTICLE XIII
(1) Settlement of Differences-If any differences of any kind arise between the Company and the Union or its members as to the meaning, application or asserted violation of the provisions of this Agreement, or should any trouble of any kind arise, there shall be no suspension of work on account of such differences, but an earnest effort shall be made to effect a settlement. Any employee having such a difference shall take the matter up with his or her immediate supervisor within twenty (20) calendar days after it occurrence. If the employee so requests, he or she may be accompanied by a Union representative. If a Union representative attends the difference meeting, the employee's supervisor may be accompanied by another member of supervision. The immediate supervisor shall attempt to adjust the difference and shall give his or her answer within three (3) working days after the discussion with the employee. If the answer is not accepted, the difference may become a grievance, and a written grievance in triplicate on the form provided for that purpose shall be signed by the aggrieved employee within three (3) working days after receiving the immediate supervisor's answer. The employee shall deliver three (3) copies to his or her immediate supervisor who within two (2) working days shall sign and date all copies, return one (1) copy to the employee and mail one (I) copy to the Union office.
(2) Penalty Clause - Failure by the Company or the Union to answer a grievance at any step of the grievance procedure within the time limit specified therein shall cause the grievance to be automatically processed to the next step of the grievance procedure, provided that a grievance shall not be processed from Step C to Step D by virtue of the Company's failure to answer at Step C unless the Union appeals the decision to Step D in writing within seven (7) working days after conclusion of the Step C meeting.
(3) Grievance Procedure - The procedure for the handling and settlement of such grievance shall be as follows:
STEP A - The Step A meeting shall be held within five (5) working days after the date of the written grievance. This meeting will be attended by the employee and not more than two (2) Union representatives or officers or, in the alternative, by not more than three (3) Union representatives or officers, and by not more than three (3) Company representatives. The Company shall deliver to the Union office its answer and the reasons, therefore, in
-89-
writing, within four (4) working days after the conclusion of the meeting. If the answer is not accepted, the Union may appeal the decision to Step B, in writing within seven (7) working days after the conclusion of the Step A meeting.
STEP B - Each party shall, within five (5) working days after the date of the Union's appeal or the date on which the grievance is automatically processed to this step of the grievance procedure, as provided in paragraph 2) of this Article XIII, whichever may be the case, prepare and deliver to the other party a signed statement in triplicate, setting forth its views of the facts and findings to date. The aggrieved party shall also set forth all its claims and basis therefor. In the event any party shall fail to comply with the foregoing requirements within the prescribed time limits; the party who has complied may serve upon the party who has failed to comply a written demand requesting compliance. In the event the non-complying party fails to comply within three (3) working days at the receipt of such a demand. the grievance shall be considered as no longer existing if the non-complying party is the Union or the employee, or be considered as awarded to the Union if the non-complying party is the Company. This action shall not constitute a precedent for any other pending or subsequent grievances. Any such demand shall be served upon the Union by delivery to its office in Detroit and upon the Company by delivery to its Labor Relations Department in Detroit. Within three (3) working days after the exchange of these statements, a meeting shall be held to be attended by not more than two (2) Union officers or representatives and by not more than two (2) representatives of the Company. The Company representative shall deliver to the Union office its answer and the reasons therefore, in writing, within four (4) days after the conclusion of the meeting. If the answer is not accepted, the Union may appeal the decision to Step C, in writing, within seven (7) working days after the conclusion of the Step B meeting.
STEP C - A Step C meeting shall be held within five (5) working days after the date of the Union's appeal or the date on which the grievance is automatically processed to this step of the grievance procedure, as provided in paragraph 2) of this Article XIII, whichever may be the case, attended by not more than two (2) representatives selected by the Company and not more than two (2) representatives selected by the Union. At least one (1) representative so selected by each party shall be a person not previously involved in any prior step of the grievance procedure. The Company repre-
-90-
sentatives shall deliver to the Union office their answer and the reasons therefore, in writing, within four (4) working days after the conclusion of this meeting. If the answer is not accepted, the Union may appeal the decision to Step D, in writing, within seven (7) working days after the conclusion of the Step C meeting. It is mutually agreed that new issues, not previously discussed, will not be considered in the event any grievance is processed to arbitration.
S T E P D - A Step D meeting shall be held within four (4) working days after the date of the appeal, and at said meeting, the Union and the Company shall undertake to select an impartial arbitrator by mutual agreement from a list of five (5) arbitrators selected by each party and submitted at this meeting. If the parties cannot agree upon an arbitrator at the aforesaid meeting, the party demanding arbitration may request the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service to submit a list of seven (7) arbitrators. Within five (5) working days, after receiving this list of arbitrators, the parties shall meet and each party, alternately, will strike one (1) name from the list until one (1) name remains, and that person will be asked to hear the case. The moving party will strike the first name and from then on, in each succeeding arbitration case, the parties shall alternate in striking the first name from the list submitted. The parties shall attempt, in good faith, to agree upon ajoint stipulation of the issues involved. In the absence of such agreement, each party shall submit to the arbitrator its own statement of the issues involved. Either party may submit a written brief to the arbitrator before the hearing, provided that all pre-hearing briefs must be filed and served upon the opposing party at least three (3) working days before the lime set for the hearing. Post-hearing briefs may be filed within such times as may be fixed by the arbitrator. The arbitrator shall have no power to add to, or subtract from, or modify any of the terms of this' Collective Bargaining Agreement. The arbitrator's decision shall be final and binding upon the Company, the Union and the employees. The arbitrator's fees and expenses shall be divided equally between the parties. If the arbitrator requires a transcript of an arbitration hearing, or the Company and the Union mutually agree that an arbitration hearing shall be stenographically reported or recorded, the cost of such reporting or recording and the cost of the minimum number of transcripts required shall be divided equally between the parties. If only one of the parties desires that an arbitration hearing be stenographically reported or recorded, and the arbitrator does not require a transcription of such hearing, such party shall pay the entire
-91 -
ARTICLE XIII reporting or recording fees and the cost of any transcripts made of such report or record; provided, however, that if the other party subsequently procures any part of a transcript of such record or report made, it will reimburse the other party for one-half (1/2) of Ihe toial cost of the reporting or recording fees and the minimum number of transcripts that are required. Otherwise than herein provided, each party shall pay its own expense.
(4) Effect of Settlement - The settlemenl of any difference, dispute or grievance, prior to commence of an arbitration hearing, shall not, in any manner, constitute or establish a precedent for the settlemenl or disposal of pending or subsequent grievances, nor shall such settlement or disposal create a basis for retroactive adjustment in any olher dispute or grievance, nor shall such settlement constitute an interpretation of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
(5) Company Representative and Waiver of Steps - At least once each calendar year, the Company shall send the Union a statement designating, by title or name, the representatives who will act for the Company at each step of the grievance procedure, The Company and the Union, by mutual agreement, may waive any steps of the grievance procedure to expedite the settlement differences.
The Company and Union have agreed to an expedited arbitration process (see Letter number 22).
(6) Union Grievance Committee Members - For the purpose of handling grievances, the Union shall designate eight (8) members of its organization, one (1) from each department, who shall be departmental grievance members and together shall constitute the grievance committee.
(7) Definition of Working Day - As used in this Article, a working day shall mean any day, Monday through Friday, except holidays.
-92-
ARTICLE XIV
ARTICLIiXIV
(1) Disciplinary Warnings - When an action by an employee is such as to result in a supervisory warning, which may in the future be used in considering more severe disciplinary action, such warning shall be in writing, and one (1) copy of such written warning shall be given to the employee and two (2) copies of such written warning shall be delivered or mailed to the Union office within twenty (20) calendar days after the Company's first knowledge of the occurrence. One copy of the warning will be noted by the Union Grievance Committee and returned to the Company and a written warning given to an employee after such twenty (20) day period shall be a nullity.
(2) Discipline Resulting in Suspension or Discharge - When disciplinary action is taken which results in the suspension or discharge of an employee. the Company shall notify the Union office within ten (10) calendar days of the action and the reason therefore. If the Company fails lo give notification to the Union office within the ten (10) calendar day period, the suspension or discharge shall be considered a nullity. In the investigation of any employee's conduct which may result in suspension or discharge, if the employee so requests, he or she shall be accompanied by a Union representative or officer who-will not be paid by the Company for such Union activity. When the suspension is of indefinite duration, pending review of the facts and determination of the ultimate penalty, the Company shall keep the Union advised of the status of the review and shall not unnecessarily delay its decision. Suspension penalties shall be the equivalent of straight-time hours lost. During the suspension period, notwithstanding any other provision of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, the suspended employee shall accrue vacation credits, he or she shall retain his or her rights under the Group Life Insurance Plan, Medical Plan and Comprehensive Medical Plan or Health Maintenance Insurance Plans, Group Dental Plan, Retirement Plan, Surviving Spouse Annuity Plan and Prescription Drug Co-Pay Plan; such employee shall be considered for advanced assignment opportunities if he or she can be contacted by reasonable effort, and he or she shall be entitled to idle holiday pay, if a holiday falls during the suspension period. If a discharge is reduced to a suspension by arbitration, the employee's right to fringe benefits during the suspension period shall be governed by the arbitrator's award. If an employee reports for work on his or her scheduled shift and is subsequently suspended or discharged for an offense committed on a prior shift, he or she will receive a minimum of two (2) hours pay.
-93-
(3) Just Cause for Discharge - Without excluding other causes for discharge, the following shall constitute just cause from which there shall be no appeal except to determine the validity of the charge, to negotiation or arbitration between the Company and the Union; namely, drunkenness or illegal use of drugs, dishonesty in conduct involving theft of money or property, failure to obey a direct order, direction of violent verbal abuse or physical attack toward supervisory personnel, and willful damage to Company property and business.
(4) Discharged Employees' Appeal Rights - Subject to the limitations provided in paragraph 3) above, in the event an employee of the Company, who shall be discharged from his or her employment from and after the date hereof, believes that he or she has been unjustly dealt with, that employee shall, within forty-eight (48) hours from the time of discharge, file his or her grievance with the Grievance Committee who shall, in turn, within fortyeight (48) hours after receipt of said grievance, notify the Company of the grievance and request the adjustment of the same, beginning at Step B of the grievance procedure herein provided. In the event it should be decided, under the grievance procedure of this Agreement, that an injustice has been done to the employee with regard to his or her discharge or discipline, then the Company shall rescind such penally and abide by the disposition of the grievance with regard to any loss of wages.
-94-
ARTICLE XV
ARTICLE XV
Contract Work - The Company agrees that it will not contract any work that its employees can efficiently and expeditiously perform and which is ordinarily and customarily done by its regular employees. The above language does not limit or restrict the Company's right to contract out work as long as employees normally performing such work are not affected by layoff or a reduction of hours below forty (40) per week.
-95-
ARTICLE XV]
ARTICLE XVI
Classification of Work and Wages - Classifications of Work and Wages, during the term of this Agreement or any extension thereof, shall be as set forth in the Classification of Work and Wages dated October 3. 2004.
ARTICLE XVII
ARTICLE XVII
(1) New Employees - With respect to new employees, the first three hundred and sixty-five (365) calendar days of employment shall be considered a probationary period during which time such employee shall not be placed on the seniority list. During the first one-hundred and eighty (180) calendar days of employment, an employee may be discharged without recourse to the grievance procedure. During the entire probationary period of three hundred sixty-five (365) calendar days, an employee can also be discharged without recourse to the grievance procedure if the employee is not qualified for the position or-has failed to demonstrate satisfactory job performance. After completion of the probationary period, such new employee's seniority shall start from the date of hiring.
(2) Probationers - Those newly hired into the Company shall be probationers until a probationary period of three hundred and sixty-five (365) calendar days shall have been served. Transferees into the bargaining unit shall be probationers until a probationary period of one hundred and eighty (180) calendar days shall have been served. Any employee who hires or transfers into the Detroit District bargaining unit on or after January I, 1995, with the exception of bargaining unit transferees and those hired into Special Skills classifications as defined in Article XI, (2) and those hired into the Appliance Fitter. Service Consumption Technician and Building Operator Technician classifications will be paid 65% of the classified pay rate in effect on January 2001 for the life of this agreement and will receive a fiat $0.50 per hour wage increase every six (6) months for a period of thirty-six (36) months as outlined in Schedule I.
SCHEDULE I
Starting Rate
Flat Six Month
During
Per Hour Raise During
36-Month Period 36 Month Period
--
No employee shall be hired to fill a vacancy in any classification if there is an employee in a lower classification of similar nature within the same department who is qualified to meet the requirements of the vacancy.
(3) Probation Notification -The Company agrees to give notice to the president of the Union monthly during the entire three hundred and sixty-five (365) day probationary period, when a probationer has not been performing well.
It is agreed and understood that failure to comply with this provision will not preclude the Company from terminating said employee prior to the end of his or her probationary period, and that the intent of this understanding is to give the Union the opportunity to assist the probationer to succeed. Additionally, employees who have satisfactorily completed probation will be advised of same at such time.
(4) Benefit Entitlement - Benefit entitlement for the Traditional Medical Plan shall become effective for new employees gn the first of the month in which their second month anniversary occurs.
a) HMO Coverage - Shall become effective for new employees the first . (! st) of the month in which their second month anniversary occurs. See Article VII, (Preamble A).
b) Dental Coverage - Shall become effective for new employees on the first (1st) of the month in which their second month anniversary
-99-
occurs. See Article VII, (5).
c) Group Life Insurance - Benefit entitlement for life insurance shall not become effective until the first (1st) of the month in which their second month anniversary occurs. See Article VIII, (3).
d) Holidays - Effective December 1, 1994, employees with less than ninety (90) days of service will not be eligible to receive pay for the first two (2) holidays.
e) Savings Plan - See Article VIII. (2).
f) Prescription Drug Co-Pay - New employees are eligible on the first of the month in which their second month anniversary occurs. See Article VII, (2).
(5) Part-Time Employees - Any employee who is hired or agrees to work a stipulated workweek of less than forty (40) hours shall be defined as a parttime employee. The following provisions are applicable to part-time employees only:
a) A part-time employee shall accrue vacation credits at the applicable monthly accrual rate given in Article V, paragraph I), multiplied by the ratio that the number of hours of his or her stipulated workweek bears to forty (40) hours.
b) The provisions of Article V shall apply to a part-time employee, except that such employee shall accumulate sick leave credits at the applicable monthly accrual rate given in Article V, multiplied by the ratio that the number of hours of his or her stipulated workweek bears to forty (40) hours.
(6) Summer Employees - Without any requirement of posting, the Company may hire summer employees in any starling job in Distribution Operations, Property Operation and Maintenance Departments, Transportation, and the Stock Department, provided that it notifies the Union of the proposed employment. Effective December 3. 2000. the pay rate for summer employees will he $10.00 an hour for each year of the contract. This rate of pay shall remain consistent throughout the term of the contract. Incumbent summer employees returning from the previous year shall
- 100-
ARTICLE; XVII
continue to receive the base rate of pay in effect at the expiration of their previous year assignment. No such employee shall remain a summer employee for longer than one hundred twenty (120) days. During this period, the employee shall not be eligible for any Company sponsored health care plan. Prescription Drug Co-Pay Plan, Surviving Spouse Annuity, Group Dental Plan, Group Life Insurance coverage, Accident and Sickness Benefit Plan, Holiday pay, Jury Duty pay or accrual of vacation credits. Summer employees safety shoe and clothing allotments will be limited to one (D pair of shoes and one (I) vest over the term of their employment unless otherwise approved by management. Such employee shall retain all other benefits accorded employees hired on a regular basis. Upon completion of one hundred twenty (120) calendar days' employment, the employee shall become a regular employee. (a) The Company has the right to terminate summer employees with or
without cause within one hundred twenty (120) calendar days after the date of original employment.
- 101 -
ARTICLE XVIII
ARTICLE XVIII
(1) Term of Agreement - This Agreement shall take effect as of 12:01 a.m. December 3. 2000, and shall remain in full force and effect until 12:01 a.m. October 3. 2004, and from year'to year thereafter, unless either party notifies the other, in writing, at least sixty (60) days before October 3. 2004 or before October 3 of any subsequent year, of its desire to terminate same.
(2) Mutual Acknowledgment of Agreement - The parties acknowledge thai during the negotiations which resulted in this Agreement, each had the unlimited right and opportunity to make demands and proposals with respect to any subject or matter not removed by law from the area of collective bargaining and that the agreements arrived at by the parties after the exercise of that right and opportunity are sel forth in this Agreement. It is understood that nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to prevent its modification by mutual consent.
- 102-
ARTICLE XIX
ARTICLE III
Good Faith Signatures - The Company, for itself, and the Union, for itself and its members, each agree that they will in good faith abide by all the terms and conditions of this Agreement. ,
SIGNED - On behalf of Michigan Consolidated Gas Company
LEWIS S. BARR, Director Safety and Labor Relations
On Behalf of Gas Workers Local #80 Service Employees International Union, AFL-CIO
^g>
--
For purposes of pay increases. Customer Service Representative I's will be evaluated on lower measures than Customer Service Representatives II. In addition, for purposes of pay increases only, employees in the Customer Service Representative I classification will have a limited evaluation on quality. The substantive portion of the quality evaluation will only be reviewed on certain types of calls (See Below). On calls outside the specified list, employees in the Customer Service Representative I classification will only he evaluated (for purposes of pay increases) on the non-substantive portion of the calls. However. Customer Service Representative I's will be coached on all types of calls.
CUSTOMER SERVICE REPRESENTATIVE I AND II DUTIES
Listed below are the duties that all Customer Service Representatives (I and II) will be required to handle to completion. Training in all of the following duties is provided in the Introductory Class. It is understood that newer employees may at times require assistance from Technical Support and CSR Il's, as assigned, to appropriately handle certain calls that are unusual or infrequent in nature. Those duties identified with an asterisk
- 118-
CUSTOMER SERVICE DEPARTMENT
are those on which Customer Service Representative I's will be evaluated with respect to the substance of the call.
--
CUSTOMER SERVICE REPRESENTATIVE II
Customer Service Representative IFs will be responsible for all the duties listed above. In addition, depending on need, as determined bv management, the following duties will be assigned to Customer Service Representatives IPs.
--
Monitoring is a tool,to evaluate.the on-line effectiveness of employees to reach and maintain quality service. The approach for monitoring will continue to be based on a premise that fosters a work environment that builds on mutual trust and respect, which enhances job satisfactionMonitoring includes but is not limited to three (3) categories as follows:
a) Service Observations/ Developmental: Monitoring of this type is intended to randomly review the performance of the Customer Service Unit to determine their effectiveness.in providing quality service to customers. Service Observations and "sit-withs". made at the direction of the Company for the purposes of determining the overall level of service furnished to customers, call volume trends, and identification of training needs, are not.intended nor will they be used for rating the performance of individual employees. However, these observations will be used to identify any performance.issues_that an employee may have, and will serve as a coaching tool for management or Quality personnel. Other supervisory steps, such as training sessions, visual observations, and individual discussions and coaching, may be used in addition to monitoring to assess and improve an employee's performance. Service observations will be utilized no more than four times per month for coaching. The employee's direct_supervisor will conduct this monitoring. The coaching by direct supervisor will be completed within 10 business days after the service observation and written documentation of the call will be completed and reviewed with the employee. Quality personnel and Tech Support can also conduct Service Observations but purpose and result must be documented. Director and above may Service observe and written documentation will not he required. The Company reserves the right to continue to utilize.additional service observations in instances where management has a reasonable basis to believe that the employee is engaged in inappropriate behavior.
The Company will not publish any result data of any official observing for offices that would allow for identification of individual employees.
bj Diagnostic: Monitoring of this type is intended to review and evaluate new or changed products, promotional services, practices, and adherence to Service Level Agreements.
-135-
c] Evaluative: Monitoring of this type is intended to be handled in a professional and confidential manner and to document all aspects of the performance of the individual .employee, for evaluation purposes. Management personnel will conduct this type of monitoring. Evaluative call/interview monitoring will be from q sampling of call/interviews. Such calls/interviews will not be arbitrarily selected for evaluative purposes. The monitoring results should be reviewed with, the employee within 10 business days after the monitoring has taken place. If the review is delayed for any reasont the employee may choose to have the monitoring tape discarded and receive an "NA" score for that tape. review the tape and results before deciding or have a new tape made.
Monitoring samples taken from Service Observations and/or Diagnostic review are not intended to be used in the determination of the employee's overall compensatory performance evaluation.
Monitoring tapes will include on the tape the name of the observer and date,
Monitoring used for Service Observations or Diagnostic reviewt will not result in employee discipline unless customer abuse, fraud, or violations of the Company Employment Standards, or departmental work rules are noted.
To administer monitoring, the Company will determine the number of calls and the type of monitoring which will he utilised. The Company intends to provide for reasonable Company-wide consistency in the number of monitored calls/interviews needed to obtain a valid sample of the employee's grade of service and to determine his/her_training needs. The Company will determine the contact evaluation format used by employees that will be subject to supervisory monitoring..
Contact Evaluation: Forms and Interpretation
a) The Company will utilize the 4-part "Live" Call/Interview Assessment or other package similar in content to the 4-part format.
bj The Company will utilize Fhone-Pro or other designated etiquette package. The greeting to be used by employees will be verbatim.
- 136-
Customer Service Representatives will continue to comply with the nuance list, not verbatim. The Company will periodically review and amend the nuance list and take union input with regard to the list.
Monitoring is a training tool intended to develop overall performance while providing efficient, courteous, responsive, customer driven quality service.
The Company's reason for engaging in monitoring will be explained during new hire orientation to customer service unit employees.
The Company will continue to train and develop leaders in Customer Service in analyzing observation data, and in improving interviewing skillsincluding placing emphasis on the positive aspects of an employee's job performance.
The Company will continue to allow employees, at their request, reasonable time during working hours (normally during feedback of the results of Leader monitoring) to review their monitoring records and work performance summaries.
CUSTOMER SERVICE DEPARTMENT SENIORITY COMPANY SENIORITY
December 3. 2000 shall he used as the Company Seniority Date for all employees who were employed in the Customer Service Department (Customer Service. GRAT/New Service and Station Assistant Units)on December 3. 2000.
DEPARTMENT/UNIT SENIORITY
Department Seniority Department seniority for employees assigned to the Customer Service Department shall consist of an employee's total Length of Service, in a nonexempt hourly status, in the Customer Service. GRAT/New Service and Station Assistant units.
- 137-
Unit Seniority Unit seniority shall consist of an employee's total Length of Service, in a non-exempt hourly status, in either the Customer Service, GRAT/New Service or Station Assistant units.
Temporary Assignments Outside of the Bargaining Unit
(1) An employee who is temporarily assigned to a position outside of the bargaining unit will he paid an additional 50 cents per hour added to hase. Temporary assignments shall not be longer than a three (3) month period hut mav be extended as circumstances warrant upon mutual agreement between management and the Union. Assignments will not be permitted which will act to reduce the number of employees normally required to do the job from which they have been loaned.
(2) Employees would be required to be at least "Model" (ME) in performance to be placed on a temporary assignment. The assignment will then be made on the basis of the highest departmental seniority of employees who volunteer.
(3) Performance evaluations will be based on the prorated time spent in the Customer Service Department and the time spent in the temporary assigned position. If the performance level in the temporary assigned position is such that the employee would be penalized in the overall evaluation, the evaluation in the temporary assignment will not be considered in the overall evaluation and the employee will only he evaluated on the prorated time spend in Customer Service.
(41 For transfers within the bargaining unit Article XI of the Local 80 contract will be used.
- 138 --
CUSTOMER SEKVICI- DEPARTMENT
Loans to the New Service/GRAT Unit
The language in Article XI. (4) will apply with the following process:
--
CSR Staffing Policy
GSR's are required to he logged on to their computers and phones for their entire work shift. CSR's are required to be available to handle customer calls or walk-in's at all times with the following exceptions:
.-Aux 1 - breaks and lunches according to schedule Aux 2 - union business Aux 3 - meetings Aux 4 - training Aux 5 - projects and office support Aux 6 - correspondence Aux 7 - interview Aux 8 - teller Aux 9 - miscellaneous
Aux codes two (2) through six (61 require prior Supervisory approval. Failure to get Supervisory approval could result in disciplinary action. Aux 9 is used for miscellaneous paper work or bathroom break. Aux 9 does not require Supervisory approval. Aux 9 is used to calculated staff time and the 30 minute authorized time equates to 93% staffed.
CSR's cannot fall below 93% staffed on a monthly basis. Failure to meet the required 93% staffing may result in disciplinary action. Any CSR needing more than the 30 minutes allowed daily in Aux 9 needs to get prior Supervisory approval to schedule time in one of the other Aux codes.
STAFFING WORK RULE
Staffed time for Customer Service Representatives will he reviewed on a monthly basis. Employees who are below 93% staffed time for the month will be subject to discipline under the guidelines for minor work rules. In addition, employees who fail to obtain supervisory approval prior to using Aux Codes 2 through 6 will be subject to discipline under the guidelines for minor work rules.
If an employee exceeds 30 minutes per day staffed time for other than Company work, it will he considered abuse of time under the abuse of time work rule.
- 142-
TRAINING
CUSTOMER SERVICE DEPARTMENT
The Union and Company recognize that the ever-changing marketplace makes it mutuallv beneficial to maintain open and meaningful dialogue at the highest Union/Management levels concerning the Company's competitive challenges. Business needs and the Union's desire to provide significant input concerning related Company decisions and actions which may effect and/or impact Union represented employees. Therefore, the parties agree to initiate a joint Training Advisory Team for ensuring such open dialogue and to forge a stronger partnership dedicated to the promotion of mutually beneficial objects.
The Parties intend those Team members will convene to collectively address a wide range of key business and employee related issues.
The Customer Service Department agrees to adopt the current CBA process identified in Article 1. Section 6 with an adjustment for departmental language.
Technological Change
The Company understands its obligations under Article 1. (3) with respect to the introduction of new technology.
TRAINING ADVISORY TEAM The role of the Training Advisory Team is to recogni/e the critical role of training to create an educated organization where continuous employees' development is supported and encouraged.
The Advisory Team will provide an opportunity for an employee to learn in an environment to successfully perform the job and plays a part in the total approach to improving job performance. This team will also promote the foundation for an individual's developments towards future growth of the organization.
- 143-
The Training Advisory Team will be established for the Customer Service Department, consisting of an equal number of management and Local#80 employees, not to exceed a total of eight (8). The Training Team will work to review and determine the curriculum for training new hires, incumbents and transfers, which will then be referred to the Training Department for implementation of the programs.
The Team will also develop a template or model for training for employees who are not performing at a satisfactory level.
Local#80 may on a quarterly basis assign a Customer Service Representative II to the Quality area for a period of two (2) weeks to observe and participate in the area's operations. The employee will then report on his/her experience lo the Training Advisory Team for the purpose of determining process improvements for training,
If the Training Advisory Team is unable lo reach consensus on any training issues, the matter will be referred to an officer of Local#80 and the Vice President responsible for Customer Service for final determination.
GRAT/Ncw Service Analysts and Station Assistants will set up a separate training committee for their areas in accordance with their needs.
WORK RULES
The Company will apply the current drug and alcohol testing programs for union employees, for the Customer Service Department.
The Company will apply the current Company Employment Standards (dated 8/1/96). with the following exceptions:
--
ment via the appropriate reporting mechanism (Leader. TST. or if absence due to illness, the support agency) by the start of his/her shift. Leaving a voice mail message is not acceptable. The appropriate reporting authority must be timely notified if the absence is going to continue more than one day.
--
Proper Use of the Telephone for Personal Calls
--
code 9. the CSR is to notify their Leader/Tech Support.
--
--
Center shall be considered one location. The Ann Arbor. Wyandotte. Hamtramck and Dearborn Business offices shall be considered one location. Such determination shall he made consistent with the forecasted workload and the Company's obligation to maintain a proper working force and to provide adequate service to its customers. The Company shall make a reasonable effort to provide employees an opportunity to take vacations at times desired by them. Vacation shall he opened to each location equally.
Vacation periods shall he scheduled pursuant to the foregoing and the following provisions:
(a) Each year between October 1 and November lt each employee shall be canvassed hv Company Service Date for his or her desired vacation period. Each employee shall submit his or her request within three (3) weeks after being contacted. The Company will return vacation requests hv December 13th.
(h) In the event of conflicting requests for vacation periods, priority shall be based on greatest Company Service Date. A person requesting an entire week shall be given priority over someone requesting a partial week regardless of seniority. (Partial week defined as two (2) days or less).
(c) An employee who fails to designate a desired vacation schedule within the time requirement set forth in fa) above, shall not be entitled to execute a priority until after November 22. or after all other employees have been given an opportunity to make their selection, whichever shall occur first, and then such priority may he utilized only with respect to the remaining unscheduled vacation periods.
GRAT/NEW SERVICE VACATION
Each year between November I and December 10.. each Analyst shall be canvassed by seniority (Company Service Date) and classification for their desired vacation period. Each Analyst shall submit their request within
- 148-
three (3) weeks after heinp contacted. The Company shall return approvals by December 31. The Company will attempt to schedule vacations based on Analyst preference, whenever possible.
In the event of conflicting requests for vacation periods, priority shall he based on greatest Company Service Pate.
An Analyst who fails to designate a desired vacation schedule within the time requirement set forth above, shall not be entitled to exercise a priority until December 31. or after all other Analysts have been given equal opportunity to make their selection, whichever shall occur first, and then such priority may be utilized only with respect to the remaining unscheduled vacation periods.
STATION ASSISTANT VACATION
Vacation scheduling for Station Assistants will be at the discretion of each Station's Management and is independent of the other stations. It will be each Station Management's responsibility to arrange for any needed backup assistance during scheduled vacation time following the outlined short/long term replacement guidelines.
CUSTOMER SERVICE UNIT OVERTIME AGREEMENT
OVERTIME GROUPS
A list of all CSR's showing their overtime group fphone centers, business offices) assignments and qualifications will be prepared. CSR's of limited duty due to physical condition^ shall be so designated and must understand overtime will be given only when consistent with their physical conditionCs) and normally assigned duties. Overtime assignments within the Customer Service Unit will be selected utilizing a low overtime hour's CSR list. If the list is exhausted without filling the assignments), the CSR with the lowest overtime hours is scheduled to work.
- 149-
OVERTIME LISTS
Management shall keep a continuous overtime list daily. All CSR.Ps and IPs are eligible for overtime assignments. The overtime list shall start with zero hours at the beginning of each year. Thg sequence of names shall be carried from December 31, to begin the New Year. CSR's will be canvassed prior to December 31. for their choice of remaining on the overtime list or to be removed. CSR's wishing to remain on.the.oyertime list or he removed from the overtime list must do so for six (6) months. Barring emergencies, every effort will be made to honor their request. However, if there are not enough CSR's on the overtime list to manage the workload, management may force the low overtime employee on the overtime list, then low seniority emploveefs) of the entire overtime group. This will also be for 6 months. The overtime list shall he made available on the first work day of each week andghall be posted at the work unit location's bulletin board and shall he updated each normal workday. The lists shall be used from Friday end of the shift to Monday start of shift without altering the CSR's position hecause_of over7 time worked. Accumulated hours will be determined from available reports and clerical errors will not be used as the basis of a "by-pass."
Employees wanting to be called for or offered overtime for Night Service will notify Management and be so designated on the overtime list. When it is necessary to solicit for such overtime those employees so designated will he offered the overtime. Thoseemployees with lower seniority on the overtime list will he charged for any solicited overtime. If it is necessary to force overtime for the Night Service the entire overtime list will be used and forcing done by low overtime.
Overtime work shall he assigned whenever possible to CSR's working during the period involved.
The Company shall call all non-scheduled CSR's as early as possible whenever workload is such that planned overtime is known or on such days that it is known early in the day that everyone will be working overtime. Non-scheduled employees shall be called.before anyone is forced to work overtime.
The Business Offices will have separate lists for each location. Phone Center overtime can only be worked.at, a, business office when a Security guard is present.
- 150-
The Phone Center will have one list for all Phone Centers. Phone Center overtime can only be worked at remote locations when a Security guard is present.
! OVERTIME SOLICITATION
Solicitation for overtime will be directed to all CSRs which includes the Customer Service Unit and the Grand Rapids call center. If there are too few, or too many volunteers for the overtime work, overtime distribution will be proportionate to staffing between Detroit and Grand Rapids call centers. The company agrees to use the ratio of 60% Detroit and 40% Grand Rapids for overtime,
The Company maintains the right to force overtime if there are not enough volunteers and will use guidelines listed in the document.
REFUSAL TIME
Refused overtime will he posted as offered actual time worked. A CSR shall not be charged with a refusal to work overtime on the last scheduled day before the CSR begins a vacation. A CSR will only be charged with the time for one refusal within a 24-hour period. If all CSR's in an overtime group refuse the assignment, then the low overtime CSR in the overtime group may be required to work. Officers, Union Stewards and Executive Board Members of Local 80 will be excused from working overtime on the night of a meeting which has been called bv union officers provided management is notified via email prior to the commencement of their shift on the day of the meeting.
LOANED OR TRANSFERRED CSR's/RE ASSIGNMENT TO OVERTIME LIST
CSR's on a loan to another department or division and whose working hours are shown on the borrowing department's work week schedule are eligible for overtime and will be omitted from the overtime list only when the CSR requests to he removed from the overtime list. CSR's whose working hours are shown on the work week schedule and are loaned to another
- 151-
department are eligible for regular assigned overtime_proyided they are at their home unit and available at the time of the assignment of overtime. In addition,.they are.also eligible to be called from home or to be contacted for non-scheduled workday assignments and they have not worked or refused chargeable overtime that week in the borrowing department.
ABSENCE TIME
When employees return from anv absence of greater than 5 weeks, the average hours accumulated by the employee's group during the employee's absence after the first five weeks will be added to the employee's actual hours. If the employee's accumulated overtime is higher .than.the.average of the employee's working group, the employee's actual hours will be used.
BY-PASS TIME
In the event, "by-pass" time is allowed, the CSR will be paid the number of hours at the straight time rate. The CSR's hours to be added to their accumulated hours will be the number of hours paid divided by 1.5, rounded off to the nearest half hour. The addition to the CSR's overtime hours shall be done on the day that the CSR or the CSR's Union Representative is notified that the "by-pass" payment is to he made.
NEW SERVICE AND GRAT UNIT OVERTIME Overtime Agreement
Management will request overtime to be worked by sending an e-mail to all Analysts indicating.the.type of work needed on overtime.
Overtime Groups
Union Local #80 Senior Analyst will prepare a list of all Analysts showing their overtime group assignments and qualifications. Analysts of limited duty due to physical condition shall be so designated and must understand that they will he given overtime assignments only if the job to he done is consistent with their physical condition and duties normally assigned to
- 152-
--
- Perform annual inspection on all distribution system valves.
PREREQUISITE: The employee must complete the prescribed course of instruction and pass a subsequent examination of the duties within this classification. The employee must, when required, pass an examination and obtain any required license. Performance of the duties assigned under this classification for a total of three hundred sixty-five (365) days automatically qualifies an employee.
An employee who has qualified as a Distribution Maintenance Fitter Apprentice and, thereafter, has performed the duties of such classification for thirty-six (36) months, (including the three hundred sixty-five (365) days qualification period) and has been rated as qualified at the semi-annual rating next preceding the expiration date of such thirty-six (36) month period, shall have the opportunity for advanced assignment to the Distribution Maintenance Fitter classification. When an employee has been rated as not qualified at such semi-annual rating preceding such expiration date, he or she will have the opportunity for advanced assignment to the Distribution Maintenance Fitter classification at the expiration of the next semi-annual period at which the employee has been rated as qualified.
JOB TITLE: Senior Welder
LISTED DUTIES: The Senior Welder classification requires that the employee shall be able to perform some or all of the following duties:
- Leading and training of the Welder/Welder Apprentice.
- 165-
CLASSIFICATIONS
- Reading and checking blueprints. - Laying out off sets and tie ins. - Troubleshooting - Organizing work loads to meet deadlines. - Ordering parts and special orders. - All duties under the Welder/Welder Apprentice classification.
PREREQUISITE: Employee must be a qualified Welder and successfully qualify in the duties listed above.
When welding work is not available, the employee shall be required to perform the duties listed in the General Fitter classification that they have been trainedjn,
--
- Leading and training of the Welder Apprentice. - Reading Blueprints - Knowledge of various fittings and PC fittings. - Ordering Parts - All forms of welding, including hut not limited to. welding with oxv-
acetylene. electric arc, tig, microwire, and automatic welding process. in the fabrication of tools, structures, assemblies, and gas piping. including joints, fittings and branch connections of any size and design pressure. - Assisting a Senior Welder as needed.
PREREQUISITE: Employee must successfully pass the appropriate examination/test as determined by the Company. Employees in the Welder Apprentice classification would be given the first opportunity to take the examination/test prior to the Company going outside the Company to fill a Welder position.
- 166-
When welding work is not available, the employee shall be .required to perform the duties listed in the General Fitter classification that .they, have been trained in.
JOB TITLE: Welder Apprentice
LISTED DUTIES: The Welder Apprentice classification requires that the employee shall be able, to. perform various duties as assigned under .the direction of a.Welder/Senior Welder.
Once trained, the employee shall be able to perform.various duties in the weld, .shop as, assigned by a Senior Welder/Welder, without a Senior Welder/Welder being present. .EJQTF,:. Any welding duties will be limited to non-gas fabrications.
When welding work is not availahle^.the employee shall be required to perform the .duties listed in the Maintenance Fitter Apprentice classification that they have.been trained in.
PRESSURE AGREEMENT One. Person Pressure/Station Work Agreement
The Company and .the , Union agree that there are duties within .the Distribution Pressure Operations Group that.can.safely be; performed by one, person.
This agreement, was negotiated to. improve the efficiency of the Pressure Operation Group. Howevert the situation on a job site could change at any time and no employee should be reluctant.to call for assistance when needed.
--
Bumping The incumbents (as of September 2, 1979) in the former categories/groupings of employees known as Investigators, Pressure, Manifold and M.S.&l., cannot be bumped by a more senior bargaining unit employee, whether the operational unit remains at its present location or an operational unit is relocated, except as expressly provided for in the Collective Bargaining Agreement (Article IX (!)).
Bumping Station Operations/Job Postings for General Fitters Incumbent employees as of December 5, 1982. in the former category known as Station Operations, cannot be bumped by a more senior bargaining unit employee, except as provided for in the Collective Bargaining Agreement (Article IX (I), and Article Xl<5) and (6)).
!t is also agreed that on postings for a General Fitter in the former category known as Station Operations, said former incumbent Station Operators will be given first opportunity to fill the posting for a former category General Station Operator vacancy and said Maintenance Fitter shall get the second opportunity before the provisions of Article X shall apply. If the vacancy is to fill a former category General Maintenance Fitter, the first opportunity will be given to the
-172-
incumbent Maintenance Fitter and said Station Operator shall get the second opportunity before the provisions of Article X shall apply. Each incumbent former Station Operator and Maintenance Fitter by seniority will be given one opportunity to accept or decline a job posting for a General Fitter in the former category known as Station Operations before the provisions of Article X will apply to the remaining Distribution employees.
Filling Fitter Vacancies With the exception of vacancies in the Pressure Group, whenever the need exists to fill a vacancy at a designated location for a Distribution Fitter, any then current Maintenance Fitter/Fitter who has satisfactorily performed work which is similar in nature to the work to be performed in the classification declared vacant at the station(s) involved, may move laterally to the station where the opening is available prior to filling the vacancy at the station as provided in Article XI (3). Selection will be made on departmental seniority basis from employees who have given the Company prior written notice of iheir desire to do so.
Locking Meters As an alternative to cutting and capping the service lines, the Distribution Department can lock the meters so long as it does not perform work that is performed by Field Service Operations personnel as listed in the Classification of Work and Wages.
Repair Crew Assignments This is to confirm that specials will only be dispatched to a repair crew led by a General Fitter. The Company will have the ability to assign/dispatch Priority II & III leak orders (rushes and routine customer complaints) during the day shift (Monday through Friday) to Maintenance Fitters and Field Operators. This excludes Apprentices.
Further, it is understood that all repair crews on scheduled off-hour assignments will be led by a General Fitter.
Strength (Isometric) Testing This will confirm that we have agreed in consideration for Local #80's support of the Company's decision to apply strength (isometric) testing to employees posting into the Distribution Department, Article V (10) and Article XVII (19) are hereby amended as follows:
- 173-
"If there is willful or gross negligence on an employee's part as to the safety of himself or herself or a fellow employee if he/she fails to observe normal safety precautions or any of the rules in Part IV, Section (9), the Company may deny the employee 160 hours occupational disability benefits otherwise payable to him or her under this Plan which are in excess of required Workers' Compensation payments."
"The Company will pay wages on all hours paid in conjunction with Workers' Compensation except in those instances where there is willful or gross negligence on an employee's part as to the safety of hiniself or herself or a fellow employee, or if he or she fails to observe normal safety precautions, or any of the rules in Part IV, Section (9) of the Accident and Sickness Benefits Plan, whereby the Company denies occupational disability benefits otherwise payable to him or her under this Plan pursuant to Article V (10) which are in excess of required Workers' Compensation payments.
Should the Company for any reason discontinue strength (isometric) testing for employees posting into the Distribution Department, the Company shall have the right, upon thirty (30) day notice to the Union, to revert back to the existing contract language in aforesaid Articles as set forth in the Collective Bargaining Agreement dated December 2, 1979. However, this language will only apply to future cases of willful or gross negligence on the part of an employee.
It is further agreed that the Company will not apply strength (isometric) testing to any employee posting into any other department in the Detroit District other than the Distribution Department pursuant to the provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement until after January 1, 1987, with the Union reserving its right thereafter to challenge the reasonableness of strength (isometric) testing as a policy matter and also to the individual application of the program in said additional department(s).
It is further understood and agreed that the Union reserves its right to challenge the reasonableness of the strength (isometric) testing program as a policy matter and also to the individual application of the program, if the Company elects to apply strength (isometric) testing to movements into the Detroit Distribution Department necessitated by surplus/layoff situations pursuant to the provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
-174-
Two Man Crews This will confirm that we have agreed effective April 1, 1987 all crews in the Field Distribution Department, including but not limited to day, afternoons, midnight, weekends, holidays and call outs from home will consist of two employees.
Transportation for Maintenance Section Employees/ Station Operations The Company agrees lo furnish transportation for Maintenance Section, Station Operations employees for completion of maintenance assignments away from their home station.
JOB TITLE: Senior Drafter
LISTED DUTIES: The Senior Drafter classification requires that an employee shall have qualified and satisfactorily performed the duties of a Drafter and shall be able to satisfactorily perform the following described duties:
- The duties prescribed for the Drafter classification;
- Leading and training other drafting employees in performing the aforementioned duties and also including field assigned duties;
- Accepting assignments not of a routine nature; - Checking the work of Drafters;
When assigned and working on the Mapping and Automated Recordkeeping System (MARS), the Senior Drafter classification shall be able to satisfactorily perform the following duties:
- The duties prescribed in the Drafter classification; - Checking the conversion and construction and maintenance order work of
outside vendors and other Company employees as it relates to the requirements for MARS and CADD; - Leading and training other MARS, Drafting and Company employees in performing the aforementioned duties, including workstation procedures;
- Attend utility meetings as it relates to public improvement. - Other MARS related work, as assigned.
- 175-
PREREQUISITE: Shall have satisfactorily performed the duties under this classification for a total of one hundred eighty (180) days.
JOB TITLE: Drafter
LISTED DUTIES: The Drafter classification requires that an employee shall be able to satisfactorily perform the following described duties:
- Investigating, designing, laying out, preparing drawings of, reviewing and checking work pertaining to Company facilities; including coordination of location and proximity of other utility substructures and outside agency construction projects; including reports;
- Possess a working knowledge of the Company's construction specifications;
- Preparing efficiently and accurately, sketches, layouts, charts, drawings, or work of a similar nature using some of the following but not limited to the following tools: digitally prepared design or manual design from Company or outside party; digital or manual file, facility sketch or digital image; utilization of other Company systems and data bases, or outside party system data, as appropriate.
- Preparing and maintaining manual maps and/or automated maps including land base information, graphic facility information and the associated connection to facility information.
- Performing and preparing surveys establishing grades and lines;
- Doing other drafting work requiring specialized skills as assigned;
- Leading and training up to three (3) drafting employees in performing field assigned duties.
- Training other MARS, drafting and Company employees, in the use of manual and automated tools related to assigned duties.
- Relieving the Print Machine Operator when assigned.
- Reviewing work prepared by outside vendors and agencies including proposals and drawings;
When assigned and working on the Mapping and Automated Recordkeeping System (MARS), the Drafter classification shall be able to satisfactorily per-
-176-
--
meters; reading all meters; installation and repairs on any Hex or future AMR systems; changing dial glass or indexes where necessary on the job site and no soldering required; executing all leak orders; taking gas pressures to locate cause of no gas or poor supply; clearing services of stoppages; installing, changing, repairing and adjusting service regulators; and shall demonstrate a thorough knowledge of the rules and procedures of the Field Operations.
The employee must complete the prescribed course of instruction and pass a subsequent examination on the duties within this classification, and perform the duties assigned under this classification for a total of one hundred eighty (180) days to qualify.
An employee who has qualified as a Service Technician Apprentice and. thereafter, has performed the duties of such classification for thirty-six (36) months. (including the three hundred sixty-five (365) day qualification period) and has been rated as qualified at the semi-annual rating next preceding the expiration date of such thirty-six (36) month period, shall have the opportunity for advanced assignment to the Service Technician classification. When an employee has been rated as not qualified at such semi-annual rating preceding such expiration date, he or she will have the opportunity for advanced assignment to the Service Technician classification at the expiration of the next semi-annual period at which the employee has been rated as qualified.
Scheduled crews in the Field Service Division on the midnight shift will consist of two (2) employee crews.
JOB TITLE: Appliance Fitter
LISTED DUTIES: The Appliance Fitter classification requires that the employee shall be able to perform the following described duties:
- Cutting, threading, and connecting piping; tubing; and establishing gas incidental to the installation or relocation of appliances such as gas grills. logs, lights, and water heaters. The employee may also be assigned to perform work such as off's, read for changes, miscellaneous reads, meter investigations, hex repair for residential customers.
NOTE:* *.Employees are required to do appliance installations first. If there is a
-181 -
lack of installation work, their secondary responsibility is to do scheduled residential hex repair. If they need additional fill in work, said employee will be able to do the above duties in their classification.
* If the work for this new classification does not materialize, the Company will place the Appliance Fitter into the Field Operator Apprentice classification at the appropriate progression rate of pay.
* If there is a need to increase the number of Appliance Fitters due to the increase of installation work, the Company will meet with the Union President for notification purposes of the number of employees that will be required to handle the additional workload.
* The Company shall have the right to loan these employees to other departments at any time due to ihe lack of installation work and scheduled residential hex repair.
* Anyone applying for the Appliance Fitter classification will be required to pass a pre-test and strength test for the Field Operator Apprentice classification.
Performance of the duties assigned under this classification lor a total of three hundred and sixty-five days (365) automatically qualifies an employee.
Appliance Fitter
Year 1
$8.75*
Year 2
$9.25*
Year 3
$9.75*
Year 4
$10.25*
*Plus S8.00 per unit completed each day as assigned.
The pay rate for this classification shall be as follows: After three (3) years as an Appliance Filler, said employee will be required lo qualify and perform the duties of the Field Operator Apprentice classification. Further, said employee will be required to obtain a CDL after training is provided. The Company will pay for the cost of the CDL license.
- 182-
--
receive further consideration for the position, the employee must first obtain a passing grade on the pretest exam administered by the Department for this position. The pretest will be administered on a basis of Company seniority.
Twice a year, the Company will conduct a training workshop in order to afford interested employees the opportunity, on their own time, to gain understanding of the mechanical and clerical duties of the Service Technician Apprentice classification and some practice in taking tests.
Employees who obtain a passing grade on the pretest exam and then are selected for training in accordance with the Collective Bargaining Agreement, must thereafter complete the prescribed course of instruction, pass a subsequent examination on the duties within the Service Technician Apprentice classification, and perform the duties assigned under this classification for a total of one hundred eighty-two (182) days to qualify as a Service Technician Apprentice.
In view of the Union's cooperation in this matter, the Company agrees to do the following:
A. The Company will not administer a pretest examination for Service Technician Apprentice positions situations involving surplus/need transfers under Article XI (4). recall situations under Article XI (3), or to former department employees.
B. The present collective bargaining contract covers testing in certain classifications and the parties specifically agree that until June 30, 1987, the Company will not require any additional tests over and above those readily set forth in the collective bargaining contract. It is also specifically agreed by the parties that after June 30, 1987, the rights of the parties regarding testing will revert back to what they were prior to this agreement.
Scheduling of Field Service Operations Personnel
It is understood that the Company agrees to adhere to the following in the scheduling of General Service Technicians, Service Technicians and Service Technician Apprentice (hereinafter referred to as Field Service employees) in Field Service Operations:
A. Those Field Service employees on the payroll as of September 23, 1979, who attain the age of 55 years prior to December 3, 1979, shall be permitted to be excused on written request from working Saturdays, Sundays, holi-
-185-
CLASSinCATIONS
days, nonscheduled time, overtime. 4:00 p.m. to 12:00 midnight shift, and/or 12:00 midnight to 8:00 a.m. shift; however, no employee voluntarily working Saturdays. Sundays or holidays shall be entitled to be excused from working overtime on those days.
B. Those Field Service employees on the payroll as of September 23, 1979, who attain the age of 55 or after December 3, 1979, or who have completed 25 years of service with the Company as of December 3, 1979, will be permitted to be excused on written request from working odd shifts, holidays, nonscheduled days, the 4:00 p.m. to 12:00 midnight shift, the 12:00 midnight to 8:00 a.m. shift, and/or overtime during Monday through Friday. It has been further agreed effective December 1, 1995, that fifteen percent (15%) of the work force, by stalion. shall be exempt from working all odd shifts and the eligibility requirement has been reduced to eight (8) from ten (10) years. In addition, the Union has agreed that persons exempt from working odd shifts because of medical restrictions or the 25/55 and 55 and over rules will be part of the 15% calculation.
C. General Service Technicians may be required to lake up to five turns per year on working the 4:00 p.m. to 12:00 midnight or 12:00 midnight to 8:00 a.m. shift, and overtime on such occasions, it being understood that a combination of Saturday and Sunday on the same shift (4:00 p.m. to 12:00 midnight or 12:00 midnight to 8:00 a.m.) constitutes one turn in the same weekend. When such General Service Technicians take their turns working such shifi(s). (he Company will minimize the overtime assignments to such employees by not assigning work which can be performed by lower classified Field Service employees, except for serious types of Priority 1 leaks (such as an explosion).
The aforesaid agreement replaces, in its entirely, the 25/55 practices formerly in effect in the Field Service Department.
METERING DEPARTMENT
JOB TITLE: General Metering Technician
LISTED DUTIES: The General Metering Technician classification requires that an employee shall have qualified and satisfactorily performed as a Metering
- 186-
Technician and shall be able to perform the following described duties:
- Testing, inspecting, diagnosing, repairing and adjusting all meters and regulators;
- Fabricating sheet metal parts that are not connected with Building Maintenance;
- Leading one or more employees, when assigned, in performing the aforementioned duties.
The Company guarantees to maintain the combined total of General Metering Technicians and Maintenance Technicians at 25% of the sum of the Metering Department work force inclusive of General Metering Technicians, Metering Technicians and Maintenance Technicians but exclusive of any probationary employees. One maintenance technician will be included in the 25% total.
The percentage of the above employees will be determined semi-annually and, if necessary, upgrading will be done in February and August of each year. When calculating the percentage, should the percent of General Metering Technicians exceed .50. the Company will round to the next highest number.
PREREQUISITE: The employee must satisfactorily perform the work in this classification for a total of one hundred eighty (180) days.
JOB TITLE: Maintenance Technician
LISTED DUTIES: The Maintenance Technician classification requires that an employee shall have qualified and satisfactorily performed as a Metering Technician and shall be able to perform the following described duties:
- Maintaining meter repairs and building equipment, except electronic controls on meter accuracy testing equipment:
- Assisting with electronic controls on meter accuracy testing equipment, when assigned;
- Making incidental repairs to building structures at Tireman Complex which does not require a Journeyman's License;
- Welding with acetylene and electric arc in the fabrication of structures, assemblies and equipment, in connection with the operation and mainte-
- 187-
nance of the Metering Department; - Fabricating sheet metal parts, relating to Metering Department structures
and shop equipment; - Operating and making minor adjustments to Metering Department struc-
tures and shop equipment; - Assisting employees of other departments while working on equipment or
maintenance at Metering Department; - Leading one or more employees, when assigned, in performing the afore-
--
Billing and Accounting Division; updating the C.I.S./C.S.B. with pertinent meter reading information; keeping inventory records for uniforms, raincoats, shoes and rubbers; maintaining records of keys; compiling pertinent information for Meter Reading Supervision; handling telephone calls, handling incoming and outgoing mail; maintaining the office supplies including stationery, forms, make up loads; input completed order information into C.I.S./C.S.B. System; maintain routes usiny A.R.C.S.: obtain reports through M.V.R.S.; monitor equipment and send out for repairs when required sequence unrouted customer accounts; make appointments; etc., in an orderly manner; preparing routes and required keys and messages and in addition shall, upon occasion, perform the duties of a Service Consumption Technician. Performance of the duties assigned under this classification for a total of ninety (90) days automatically qualifies an employee.
Prerequisite: The employee must pass a skills test examination to be determined by the Company. When a job vacancy occurs, the position will first be posted to the Union. Any test(s) selected for use will be validated by Human Resources. If there are no employees who pass the skills test, the vacancy will then be posted Company-wide. The employee must satisfactorily perform the work in this classification for a total of ninety (90) days,
C. Pages 274, 275. 276, 277 and 278 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement under Letters of Agreement, Meter Reading is so modified:
Read Requirement/Work Shifts
A. Each station will be divided into one set of twenty (20) billing units. Adjustments to station boundaries to equalize work load will be made as appropriate.
B. Service Consumption Technicians will select one route number or use in each billing unit at their assigned station based on seniority. Once selected, this route number will be permanently assigned to the employee and he or she will be allowed to opt for open routes on a daily basis. A Service Consumption Technician, by seniority, will be eligible to bid on route numbers that come available when another employee leaves the station/department. Further, it is understood that if a meter reader bids for an open route, his or her route shall also be open for bids.
- 193-
MichCon and Local #80 agree to continue the current practice of route selection provided that said process does not exceed 20 minutes into the start of the shift each morning. In the event there continues to be problems associated with the current route selection process, the parties will meet to address same.
After the new rouies/B.U.'s are wriuen, employees will have three (3) cycles to experiment with the new routes before selections are made. Once routes/cycles have been selected, employees are expected to complete their assigned routes.
Note: When an employee with an assigned cycle of routes leaves the department permanently, that cycle will become open for bid by seniority.
C. The twelve month route quota period will start on the first day of the month following the month in which an employee starts in the Meter Reading Department.
D. The pay rate of new hires and transfers into the Service Consumption Technician classification is as outlined in paragraph (D) of this Letter of Agreement. If an employee in the Service Consumption Technician classification fails to maintain the route quota average as established by the Company (see Attachment "A") for eight (8) months in any twelve (12) month period and the employee has not completed 45 months of employment, he or she will be paid no more than 80% of their classified rate. Employees who have completed 45 months of employment will be paid 80% of their classified rate.
E. In addition, Service Consumption Technicians who fail to maintain the established route quota average for four (4) consecutive months in any twelve (12) month rolling period will have their pay reduced to 80% of their current classified rate. This pay reduction will occur at the conclusion of their fourth (4th) consecutive month of below standard performance.
F. Service Consumption Technicians who have had their pay reduced for either failing to meet the established route quota average for eight (8) of twelve (12) months of the rating period or for failing to meet the required
- 194-
mule quota for four (4) consecutive months, will have their pay reinstated to 100% upon meeting their route quota average eight (8) of twelve (12) months following the date of their reduction to 80%. Pay will be reinstated following the completion of the eight (8) months of meeting their route quota average.
G. (1) Walking Routes
Rain
Under severe weather conditions, the decision to have Service Consumption Technicians read meters on walking routes will be made at the regional Director level. Technicians will not be required to read during lightning storms. Rain gear will be issued for all Technicians. It will be the Technician's responsibility to have the rain gear ready and available at all times. Lack of rain gear does not excuse a Technician from reading in the rain.
Wind-Chill
Under severe weather conditions, the decision to have Technicians read meters on walking routes will be made at the regional Director level.
(2) Driving Routes
Service Consumption Technicians with driving routes will be expected to begin work at the start of their shift and perform their normal duties exercising care and caution regardless of rain or cold weather conditions at anytime.
(3) Clothing
Service Consumption Technicians should be advised that when outside during these weather conditions, care and caution should be taken to ensure proper clothing is worn and exposed skin is covered.
(4) Guidelines for Short Pants
Service Consumption Technicians who so desire will be allowed to wear short pants from May 1 to September 30 of each year. However,
- 195-
--
(2) The Company shall continue to have the right to assign mixed work to Service Consumption Technicians as agreed upon in the March 15, 1996 Mixed Work Agreement.
(3) The Service Consumption Technicians will be required to report back to the station after the completion of their route/work shift. The applicable mileage rate will be paid as noted in the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
(4) Service Consumption Technicians shall be eligible lo participate in any incentive program opportunities negotiated with Local #80 during the term of this agreement.
(5) The Company agrees to establish a Joint Work Rule Committee before December 31,1997 to review and make any changes, if necessary, to existing departmental work rules in Meter Reading. A joint committee will also be formed within ten (10) days of the ratification of this agreement to assist in the development of the pilot project.
- 199-
(6) No annual vehicle maintenance allowance will be paid to any Technician after the 1997 payment ($190.00) provided for under the current Local #80 agreement, page 61, Article VII, paragraph (8).
(7) This agreement, in its entirety, will be terminated immediately upon written notice being provided by MichCon to Local #80 that MichCon and Detroit Edison Company have failed to reach an agreement for MichCon to jointly read its own and Detroit Edison Company meters.
(8) Further, this agreement in its entirety will be terminated immediately upon written notice being provided to Local #80 by MichCon if the meter reading pilot project contemplated by MichCon during the coming year in conjunction with the proposed joint reading of MichCon and Detroit Edison meters is determined by MichCon in its sole discretion to have been unsuccessful.
(9) If the pilot project provided for in the above paragraph (8) is determined by MichCon in its discretion to be successful, this will confirm that during the term of this agreement with Local #80, MichCon is willing to provide a guarantee of employment to the incumbent classified Service Consumption Technicians on the payroll as of the ratification date of this agreement (names attached), so long as said named employees remain in the Meter Reading Department, subject to the following conditions:
For each year of this agreement, each of the following conditions must be met in full before said employment can be guaranteed in effect for the upcoming year of this agreement.
1. Profitability must equal or exceed MichCon's most recently authorized rate of return on common equity (current authorized ROE = 11.5%) weather normalized, and as reported on page 1, line 20 of the 1996 Annual MichCon Earnings Review package and its successors, as prepared and supported by the General Accounting and Reporting Section of Financial Services.
2. The agreement with Detroit Edison to jointly read their meters and MichCon's continues in effect.
-200-
3. That the departmental average for attempts and actual accurate reads established annually by MichCon are met or exceeded. In establishing said average for attempts and actual accurate reads MichCon shall bear the terms and provisions on Attachment "A" in mind.
4. MichCon has not implemented automated meter reading (AMR) or some other technology for collecting consumption data from customers.
5. The number of MichCon residential customers in the geographical areas whose meters said incumbents read does not fall below a level which, in management's opinion, is.required to retain all of the named incumbent Service Consumption Technicians.
6. This guarantee in no way limits MichCon's right to terminate any named incumbent Service Consumption Technicians for disciplinary reasons; for poor performance or for any other reason provided for under the Local #80 Collective Bargaining Agreement or its successors.
Nothing relating to paragraph 3(G)(9) of this Letter of Agreement is subject to the grievance procedure.
Meter ReadingTroductivity Specifications
Number of
Meter Reader Routes
'' 93
Attempts Per Year 20,760,000
Attempts Per Day Per Person 930
Actual Reads Per Year (95% of Attempts) 19,722,000
Actual Reads Per Day
Per Person (%%)
$884
Cost Per Road Per Year (at 95%)
$0,277
--
Incentive Program Opportunities Negotiated For 1998 Local #80 Contract
On April 17, 1997, the parties executed an agreement as an addendum to the Collective Bargaining Agreement, dated December 4. 1994, with respect to the wages and working conditions of the Service Consumption Technician classification within the Meter Reading Department. That agreement became effective on April 17. 1997. By way of further clarification of the agreement, which we mutually deem appropriate. I have set out the following understanding; A New Pay Incentive Program. The Union agrees that the SI.000 lump sum payment given on January 15. 1998. and a $750 lump sum payment given on December 6, 1998. to the Service Consumption Technicians is a result of 1997 contract negotiations with Local #80. The guaranteed lump sums incentive of $1,000 will be paid to all Service Consumption Technicians on the payroll as of October I, 1997. The $750 will be paid out to all Service Consumption Technicians on the payroll December 6. 1998. This agreement is in consideration of Letter of Agreement Meter Reading Department (G)(4).
This Agreement does not preclude the Union from working with Management to identify and/or implement any additional departmental level incentive programs.
Effective December 3. 2000. the parties reached agreement on a Department Incentive Program. The terms and conditions of said program are as follow?;:
ESTIMATED INCENTIVE PAYOUT
Average Productivity - Kntirc Detroit District (Reads/Day)
Per Quarter 600 625 650
Employee Pay Category - Quarterly Payout:
$10.00 Per Hour
$159
$13.00 Per Hour
$206
$19.34 Per Hour
$306
Employee Pay Category -Annual Payout:
$635
$825
$1.225
$263 $341 $508
--
3. The General Carpenter/Electrician/Plumber Employee in the carpenter category shall have a minimum of four (4) years experience as a qualified Building Repair Employee and shall have passed an appropriate lest in order to demonstrate his or her ability to perform the work of a General Carpenter/Electrician/Pl umber Employee. An employee will be allowed one (I) test per twelve (12) month period.
4. The employee must satisfactorily perform the work in this classification for a total of one hundred eighty (180) days.
The Company will provide the opportunity for assignment to the General Carpenter / Electrician / Plumber Employee classification and will maintain the number of employees in said classification at 20% (spread equally among the categories) of the sum of the number of employees in the Building Operator, Building Repair Employee and General Carpenter / Electrician / Plumber Employee classifications, provided that there are employees on the department's payroll who have the prerequisites and are qualified to perform the duties in the categories of the General Carpenter/ Electrician / Plumber Employee classification as will enable the Company to make such assignment.
-204-
JOB TITLE: Building Repair Employee
CLASSIFICATIONS
LISTED DUTIES: The Building Repair Employee classification requires that an employee shall be able lo perform the following described duties:
- All the duties prescribed for a Building Operator;
- Acting as a lead employee in directing the activities of a maximum of two (2) other employees:
- Installing, repairing, and maintaining building systems, equipment and grounds assigned not requiring a Journeyman's License;
- Carpentry work such as constructing small buildings, partitioning, construction work tables and benches, creating, building maintenance, patching plaster, varnishing, staining, painting and glazing or cutting materials for exhibits;
- Operating building systems;
- Operating and maintaining power equipment and tools required in the performance of Property Operations and Maintenance Department work;
- Performing preventive maintenance inspections;
- Assisting employees of a higher classification.
PREREQUISITE:
1. The employee shall have passed an appropriate test in order to demonstrate his or her ability to perform the work of a Building Repair Employee.
2. The employee must possess or obtain a Low Boiler Operator's License (City of Detroit) within ninety (90) days of being placed on Advanced assignment with the exception of employees classified as Plumber "A" and "B" or Carpenter "B" prior to September 30, 1979. An employee will be allowed one (I) Low Pressure Boiler Operator's test per twelve (12) month period based on the starting date of the advance assignment. A fourteen (14) working day extension will be permitted if the employee is required to return by the examiner of the Department of Building and Safety Engineering, City of Detroit.
3. The employee must satisfactorily perform the work in this classification for a total of one hundred eighty (180) days.
-205-
JOB TITLE: Building Operator
LISTED DUTIES: The Building Operator shall be able to perfonii the following described duties:
- Cleaning and maintaining buildings and grounds (such as janitorial services) assigned including rubbish handling;
"- Operating vehicles for the employee's transportation purposes, with . equipment, if necessary, to perform his or her work; - Operating power equipment and tools (up to 3.5 horsepower) required in
the performance of snow shoveling and yard maintenance work. - Shoveling snow and spreading salt; - Assisting the Building Repair Employee; and the General Carpenter /
Electrician / Plumber Employee with assignments of a minor nature when a Building Employee is available. - Performing other duties assigned such as changing lights up to a height of 15 feet, mail handling, cafeteria work, furniture moving within a building or complex, operating freight elevators, and making minor adjustments to building equipment such as setting thermostats and diffusers.
- Making A.D.T. security rounds. - Relieving receptionist as the need arises for periods not to exceed one (1)
day.
PREREQUISITE: The employee must satisfactorily perform the work in this classification for a total of ninety (90) days.
JOB TITLE: Utility Employee
--
requirements with Stock Department Management.
PREREQUISITE: The employee must complete the prescribed course and pass a subsequent examination on the work within this classification. The employee must satisfactorily perform the work in this classification for a total of ninety (90) days.
The Company will provide the opportunity for assignment to the General Storekeeper classification and shall maintain a minimum of eleven (11) employees in said classification.
JOB TITLE: Equipment Technician
LISTED DUTIES: The Equipment Technician classification requires that an employee shall have qualified and satisfactorily performed the duties of a Utility Employee and shall be able to perform the following duties:
--
This will confirm the understanding reached between both parties regarding the issues described below as they pertain to the Stock Department:
1. The Stock Department will be given the first opportunity to deliver materi-
als. and Distribution employees will not perform'this job unless there is no
Stock employee available.
-.
-215-
2. The Stock Department will be given the first opportunity to pick up any coded and non-coded auto parts requirements for the Transportation Department, except in those cases where:
--
It is agreed by the parties that this is a unique understanding and does not establish a practice or a precedent for other assignments in the Company.
Shift Moves
After the provisions of Article X are applied, if a vacancy occurs on the day shift, the employee in the same classification with the highest departmental seniority who is working on an odd shift at the station where the vacancy exists, will be given the opportunity to work the day shift.
-218-
ELIGIBILITY FOR OVERTIME ON ADVANCED ASSIGNMENT
Storekeeper employees in the Stock Department on advanced assignment will not be eligible to work overtime until they have been declared qualified to perform the following duties:
(1) Successfully Pass Hi-Lo Testing
(2) Operate Material Handling Equipment Including Yard Storage Equipment (Pay Loader), Electric Hand Truck, and Hi-Lo
(3) Familiar with Material. Material Location, and Proper Material Packaging Techniques
(4) Inputting Pick, Transfer and Receipt Confirmation Into the Warehouse Management System (WAMS)
(5) Proper Gassing Techniques
(6) Meter and Laundry Handling
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT
JOB TITLE: General Mechanic
LISTED DUTIES: The General Mechanic classification requires that an employee shall be able to perform the following described duties:
Performing some or all duties prescribed for the Mechanic classification;
Leading employees, including passing on assignment to employees on other shifts, in the performance of their duties;
Performing some or all of the duties in the following categories: Making a complete diagnosis of faulty performance of and making complete repairs to digging lines, excavating apparatus, hydraulic cylinders, pumps, valves and motors, power take-offs and similar components on mobile power equipment such as trenchers, backhoes, tractors, air com-219-
pressors, arc welders, cranes and similar equipment, the maintenance of which is normally assigned to Transportation; making complete repairs to pneumatic tools, motor driven equipment! equipment components; and maintaining, repairing mobile power and similar equipment, the maintenance of which is normally assigned'to Transportation.
Doing all forms of acetylene and arc welding; reading prints and sketches, developing and making the layouts and fabrications of welded structures or equipment therefrom; operating and maintaining machine shop equipment. The employee must successfully complete the appropriate qualification tests prescribed by the Company Welding Standard, having a working knowledge of various metals and their respective use, and be able to use a standard set of machinist tools.
PREREQUISITE: The employee must possess state certification in the categories described in the prerequisite section of the mechanic classification and obtain, when required by the government, federal/state/local certification and/or licensing, have passed appropriate mechanic's test. In addition, employees will be required to maintain stale certification and/or licensing on an annual basis, and satisfactorily perform the duties assigned under this classification for a total of three hundred and sixty-five (365) days.
JOB TITLE: Mechanic
LISTED DUTIES: The Mechanic classification requires that an employee shall be able to perform some or all of the following described duties: Performing all duties prescribed for a Utility employee;
Leading one (I) other employee of like or lower classification;
Performing driving assignments including transporting and setting up the energy conservation trailer;
Making a complete diagnosis of faulty performance of and making complete repairs in the garage or in the field to all forms of transportation vehicles, the maintenance of which is normally assigned to Transportation, including using all diagnostic testing equipment and making complete repairs to air brakes; performing preventive maintenance inspection on
-220-
mobile power and transportation equipment; performing various cutting, heating, brazing and welding jobs with acetylene and arc welding equipment; removing and replacing hydraulic cylinders, pumps, valves, motors, hoses, tanks and similar components; removing and replacing power take offs and unitized equipment such as skid mounted arc welders, compressors and hydraulic and electric powered units; repairing power-take-off drive shafts, universal joints and shifting mechanisms such as rods, cables and other linkages, repairing, adjusting and replacing compressor controls; complete repairs to gasoline or diesel engines on mobile power and similar equipment; executing service calls on and performing emergency service to mobile power and similar equipment; making, as directed by an employee in a higher classification, all other types of repairs to mobile power and similar equipment; making external repairs to pneumatic and power tools; making minor body repairs, removing and installing body parts, fenders, grills, trim and hardware; installing monograms and numbers; and brush or spray painting of metal, wood and other surfaces; and performing the sewing operation, making various fabrications from canvas, leatherette or composition material.
PREREQUISITE: The employee (new hires and transfers) must possess state certification in auto and light truck engine repair, engine tune up/performance, front end suspension and steering systems, brakes and tracking systems, manual transmission front and rear, drive axles, electrical systems, heating and air conditions, heavy duty truck repair; engine repair-gasoline, drive train suspension and steering systems, brakes and braking systems, electrical systems and obtain, when required by the government, federal/state/local certification and/or licensing, pass an entry level mechanic's test. In addition, employees will be required to maintain state certification and/or licensing on an annual basis, and satisfactorily perform the duties assigned under this classification for a period of three hundred and sixty-five (365) days.
LISTED DUTIES: To qualify for this classification, employee(s) shall be able to perform the following described duties:
--
PREREQUISITE; The employee must complete the prescribed course of instruction and pass a subsequent examination of the duties within this classification. The employee must, when required, pass an examination and obtain any required licenses. Performance of the duties assigned under this classification for a total of :three hundred sixty-five (365) days automatically qualifies an employee.
An employee who has qualified as a Field Operator Apprentice and, thereafter, has performed the duties of such classification for thirty-six (36) months. (including the three hundred sixty-five (365) days qualification period) and has been rated as qualified at the semi-annual rating next preceding the expiration date of such thirty-six (36) months period, shall have the opportunity for advanced assignment to the Field Operator classification. When an employee has been rated as not qualified at such semi-annual rating preceding such expiration date, he or she will have the opportunity for advanced assignment to the Field Operator classification at the expiration of the next semi-annual period at which the employee has been rated as qualified.
-232-
CLASS IFICATIONS
A standard for rotation between assignments for the purpose of training and skill maintenance will be established. Employees will not be moved between assignments during their first year (six (6) months in Distribution and six (6) months of Field Service) of employment while qualifying as a Field Operator Apprentice.
New Hires/Non Distribution/Field Service Transferees
Field Operator Apprentice
Effective June 10, 1994, for all new hires and January I, 1995, for all non Distribution and Field Service transferees into Distribution or Field Service will be classified as Field Operator Apprentice.
These employees will be required to perform duties of both Maintenance Fitter Apprentice and Service Technician Apprentice for the first three (3) years of employment as required.
Progression To: Field Operator
Proposed Duties:
After three (3) years, these employees will be eligible for an upgrade to Field Operator and will be required to perform the duties of both a Maintenance Fitter and Service Technician as required.
Note: All new hires will have.to qualify on the Field Service pre-employment test; and, qualify both as Maintenance Fitter Apprentice and Service Technician Apprentice.
A standard for rotation between assignments for the purpose of training and skill maintenance will be established. Employees will not be moved between assignments during their first year of employment while qualifying as a Maintenance Fitter Apprentice and a Service Technician Apprentice.
The employee will accrue Distribution or Field Service seniority based on his/her original assignment unless the employee has otherwise elected to post to a new position pursuant to the contract provisions.
- 233 -
CLASSIJICATIONS
General Field Operator*
General Field Operator shall be required to perform the duties of both a General Fitter and General Service Technician. These employees will also be required to train new employees as assigned.
These employees will be required to pass all tests (pre and post), nhtain a proper CDL license and qualify as required as follows:
- General Fitter must qualify as a General Service Technician.
- General Service Technician must qualify as a General Fitter.
- Maintenance Fitter must qualify as both a General Fitter and General Service Technician.
- Service Technician must qualify as both a General Service Technician and a General Fitter.
This new classification will be open to all Distribution and Field Service employees with at least five (5) years field seniority in either Distribution or Field Service.
These employees will be selected based on department seniority as follows:
1. Incumbent General Fitters/Technicians
2. Incumbent Maintenance Fitters/Service Technicians with at least five (5) years field seniority in their respective department (Field Service or Distribution).
3. Incumbent Maintenance Fitters/Service Technicians with a combination of five (5) years field seniority in Field Service and Distribution.
A standard rotation between Distribution and Field Service for the purpose of training and skill maintenance will be established.
The new General Field Operator would be included in the General Guarantee. Once eligible for advance assignment and an opening is available, incumbents hired prior to June 10, 1994, would be allowed to choose to be a General Fitter/Technician or a General Field Operator. Those employees hired after June 10, 1994, would be required to take their advance assignment as a General Field Operator.
*General Field Operator Classification Effective June 4, 1995 -234-
Incumbent Distribution And Field Service Employees On Loan'
Distribution Employee Loaned Field Service Employee Loaned to to Field Service Current Duties: Distribution Current Duties:
Turn Meters On and Off Remove, Set and Change Meters Read Meters Meter Investigate Relight Appliances Hexagram Repairs & Installation Leak Complaints No Gas Complaint Regulator Vent Repairs Install Insulated Unions 12:00-8:00 Helper
--
Clarification Of The Issues The Company And The Union Agreed Upon In Regards To The New Hires/Non Distribution/Field Service Transferees Agreement
In the future, any employee upgraded to General Field Operator would have a pay rate of fifty-five cents (.55c) above the current General Fitter/Technician rate.
In the future when the need arises to fill a General Fitter/Technician/Field Operator positions, incumbent General Fitters/Technicians will be given the opportunity to upgrade to General Field Operator prior to the position being filled by advance assignment. However, only one (I) upgrade will be allowed per position prior to the position being filled by advanced assignment.
The General Field Operators will be included in the general guarantee and henceforth effective June 4, 1995, the Company guarantees that the level of General Fitters/General Field Operators will be maintained at no less than one hundred and fifty (150) in Distribution and the level of General Service Technicians/General Field Operators will be maintained at no less than seventy (70) in Field Service.
Vacation And Lateral Move Selections For the purpose of selecting vacations and lateral moves, the classifications in Distribution and Field Service will be combined as follows:
Distribution: 1. General Fitters and General Field Operators 2. Maintenance Fitters / Field Operator Apprentices and Maintenance Fitters /
Field Operators
Field Service: 1. General Service Technicians and General Field Operators 2. Service Technician / Field Operator Apprentices and Service Technicians /
- 236 -
Placement On Overtime Lists For Cross-Trained Employees And Incumbent Loaned Employees
Distribution to Field Service: An employee going from Distribution to Field Service would go on the Field Service overtime list and be given one (I) turn more than the highest person on the list. The employee would then move up and down the list accordingly while they are in Field Service.
No effort will be made to create special loads for overtime in regards to incumbent Distribution employee with less than two (2) years prior Field Service experience who can only perform limited types of work. However, if a load exist with the limited types of work the incumbent Distribution employee can perform, they would be asked to work overtime in accordance with their placement on the overtime list.
Once the employee returns to Distribution, they would have the average number of hours worked at their location while they were gone added to the number of hours they had when they left and be placed on the overtime list accordingly.
Field Service to Distribution: An employee going from Field Service to Distribution would go on the Distribution overtime list and be given one (1) hour more than the highest person on the list. The employee would then move up and down the list accordingly while they are in Distribution.
Once the employee returns to Field Service, they would have the average number of turns worked at their location while they were gone added to the number of turns they had when they left and be placed on the overtime list accordingly.
Shift Work Requirements For Cross-Trained Employees Assigned And Incumbent Employees Loaned Between Distribution And Field Service
When a cross-trained employee is assigned or an incumbent employee* is loaned and the duration of the assignment or loan is expected to be twenty-eight (28) days or longer, the employee would be scheduled to work shift work in the area they have been assigned or loaned to.
-237-
CLASSIRCATIONS
If while the employee is assigned or loaned and their turn for shift work comes up in the area they are from, they would be credited with the turn and would not be expected to make it up upon their return.
Selection Of Cross-Trained Employees When There Is A Need To Move Them Between Distribution And Field Service
A list, by seniority and classification, of all cross-trained employees will be maintained at each location.
A rotation, by turns, starting with the highest seniority employee will be used when there is a need to move employees between Distribution and Field Service, when the need does not require that all cross-trained employees at a particular location be moved.
Qualifying Period For Non Distribution/Field Service
Transferees Into Distribution/Field Service A Local #80 member who transfers into Distribution/Field Service pursuant to the Collective Bargaining Agreement shall have a one hundred and eighty (180) calendar day qualifying period, (ninety (90) calendar days in Field Service and ninety (90) calendar days in Distribution). In the event the employee fails to meet the requirements for the classification during the one hundred and eighty (180) day qualifying period, the Company shall have the right to terminate his/her assignment and return the employee to the classification and department from which the employee was transferred. A Local #80 member who is transferred into Field Service/Distribution pursuant to the Collective Bargaining Agreement also shall have the right to terminate such assignment during the first ninety (90) days of the qualifying period, (forty-five (45) days in Field Service and forty-five (45) days in Distribution) and will be returned to their former classification and department.
Nonunion employees and non Local #80 bargaining unit members who transfer into Local #80 Distribution/Field Service will be treated the same as new hires.
-238-
Article XVII, Paragraph (1), As It Applies To New Hires In Distribution And Field Service Effective January 1, 1995
(I) New Employees - With respect to new employees, the first three hundred and sixty-five (365) calendar days of employment shall be considered a probationary period during which time such employee shall not be placed on* the seniority list. During the first one hundred and eighty (180) calendar days of employment, an employee may be discharged without recourse to the grievance procedure, During the entire probationary period of three hundred and sixty-five (365) calendar days, an employee can be discharged without recourse to the grievance procedure if the employee is not qualified for the position or has failed to demonstrate satisfactory job performance. After completion of ihe probationary period, such new employee's seniority shall start from the date of hiring, and his or her disciplinary record shall be considered lo be without incident for that probationary period.
New Employee Working As Third Person In Distribution and A Second Person In Field Service
A new employee in Distribution, once he/she reports to their station during the first year, will work thirty (30) days as a third person on a crew as determined by the Company. During the second year, he/she will work thirty (30) days as a third person on a crew as determined by the Company. They will also be scheduled for a minimum of one odd shift for the first six months as a third person the crew.
A new employee in Field Service during his/her three year qualifying period, shall work as a second person for thirty (30) days and an additional fifteen (15) days if needed. If there are no evaluations, an additional fifteen (15) days will be provided. They will also be scheduled for a minimum of one odd shift, excluding midnight's, as the second person on the crew.
-239-
Mr. Frank W. Carter, President Gas Workers Local #80, S.E.I.U., AFL-CIO 2604 Fourth Street Detroit, MI 48201
LETTERS O F AGREEMENT
--
247
5. Employment Opportunities For Local #80 Members
248
6. Follow-Up Care For Serious Illness (Life Threatening)
Involving Hospitalization
7. Initial Assignment
249
8. lob Guarantee
250
9. Job Openings 120 Days After Original Posting
253
10. Light Duty Work For Employees With Medical
Restrictions Due To Pregnancy
11. Occupational Placement Program
. 253
12. Reduction Of Local #80 Union Department Representatives
254
13. Substance Abuse Advisory Committee
14. Distribution General Dispatcher Replacement
--
LETTERS OF AGREEMENT
as required by law for all coordinators and designated Union officers by no later than February 28, 1998, and in the future as needed. If an employee successfully completes the ReachOut Program and has not tested positive for the four-year period set forth in the agreement he or she has signed, then if such employee again tests positive under a For Cause Drug Test, the event will be considered as a "first instance*.'as set forth above.
LETTER #4 Employee Assistance The purpose of this letter is to confirm the understanding reached between the parties during the 1997 contract negotiations in regards to an Employee ReachOut/Drug Rehabilitation Program. The parties agreed to the'following: 1. The Company remains committed to the success of the Employee ReachOut Program. 2. A Union representative will be assigned to work with the EAPA (Employee Assistance Program Administrator) in selecting drug rehabilitation and ReachOut vendor(s), providing input on program changes and to monitor program on an ongoing basis. 3. EAP vendor(s) selected will be expected to conduct personal presentations at all stations at least once a year. 4. By June. 1998, the Company will begin to conduct Drug Awareness / ReachOut training for all supervisors and Union representatives. 5. To designate a Union EAP representative at each location to help with communications and support the EAP Program with co-workers.
The Company will demonstrate its visible support for the EAP Program through Company communications.
-247-
LETTERS O F AGREEMENT
LETTER #5
Employment Opportunities For Local #80 Members
If, during the period between December 7, 1997 and December 3, 2002, the situation arises in which a MichCon subsidiary or affiliate has open positions, MichCon will assist active Local #80 members employed by the Company, as well as former Local #80 members who have left the Company, to apply for the positions if such individuals request assistance in writing to MichCon's Human Resources Department. All criteria for hiring will be set by the hiring organization. Active or former Local #80 members who are selected for employment and who accept an employment opportunity with said MichCon subsidiary or affiliate will be considered as a new employee of the hiring organization and will be required to serve a probationary period prescribed by the hiring organization, if any. All matters relating to wages, benefits and conditions of employment will be determined by the policies of the hiring organization. Employment decisions by the hiring organization as to which or former Local #80 members it may select to fill an open vacancy will be final and binding.
LETTER #6
Follow-Up Care For Serious Illness (Life Threatening) Involving Hospitalization
The Accident & Sickness Program has a one day elimination period after_4Q hours of sick time at 100%. This presents special problems for how to handle follow-up care for a serious illness after hospitalization. This concern will be handled in the following manner:
- An employee must have been hospitalized for a serious, life threatening illness to qualify for the elimination period being waived and have a need lor the follow-up treatment outlined below.
- Prior to releasing the employee to return to work, the employee's doctor must identify the need for follow-up treatment (including any subsequent recovery time); i.e., chemotherapy treatments.
- Employee's doctor (working with Hartford) would establish a schedule for follow-up treatment. Hartford would communicate the schedule to the Medical Department.
- Follow-up schedules could not exceed four months.
-248-
- Medical would communicate the schedule to the employee's supervisor. The supervisor would enter a special auxiliary code that would allow sick pay without the elimination day during this three month period follow-up.
Example Of Follow-Up Treatment For Serious Illnesses Following Hospitalization
Cancer
An employee is diagnosed with Cancer on August 3rd and needs surgery to remove a malignant tumor. He/she is off for ten (10) weeks to recover from the surgery. The employee is able to return to work but needs to go for chemotherapy every other week for eight (8) weeks. The employee has the chemotherapy on Tuesday A-M. and is not able to return to work until Wednesday because of the side effects from the treatment. Working with Hartford, the employee's doctor would establish a follow-up treatment schedule.
Under the new Accident & Sickness Program, the employee's time reporting would be as follows:
August 3rd thru August 7th
100% pay assuming first illness of year.
August 10th to October 9th
--
On shifts where one Field Service Dispatcher is scheduled and the Dispatcher leaves due to illness or emergency and it is two hours or less prior to the start of the next shift, relief may be obtained from the available qualified Distribution Dispatcher(s) on the shift the incident occurs. If the scheduled Field Service Dispatcher fails to report and/or the scheduled Field Service Dispatcher leaves due to illness or emergency and more than two hours of his or her shift remains, then a qualified Field Service Dispatcher will be selected and called as indicated under the Field Service Dispatcher NS/Overtime write up.
LETTER #16 Filling Vacancies Prior to Posting Any incumbent Distribution General Clerk Dispatcher Operations employee will be given the opportunity to fill any opening on the Distribution Dispatch Board prior to posting said vacancy in accordance with the contract.
-255-
LETTER #17 Guarantee of Distribution General Clerk Dispatcher
Operations in Non-Scheduled Situations
In the event no midnight General Clerk Dispatcher Operations is scheduled and, one or more afternoon Distribution crews are held over, the Company will have a Distribution General Clerk Dispatcher Operations working, provided Distribution supervision determines that there is a need.
LETTER #18 Guarantee of Field Service General Clerk/Dispatcher Operations
Field Service Operations agrees that of the employees assigned to the Field Service Dispatcher Section, they will maintain three General Clerk-Dispatcher Operations.
LETTER #19
Field Clerical Positions
In Distribution Operations, when a vacancy for a Union Field Station Clerk Dispatcher occurs, all incumbent General Clerk Dispatchers will be given the opportunity lo fill the vacancy prior to the vacancy being filled by a Clerk Dispatcher at the General Clerk Dispatcher then current rate of pay. At least one General Clerk Dispatcher will be assigned to work all shifts.
LETTER #20 Assignment of Field General Clerk Dispatchers and Dispatch Board
General Dispatchers/Filling Field Clerk Dispatcher Vacancies
The assignment in Field Service Operations of "Field" General Clerk/ Dispatchers to the field'station will be minimized by the use of trained Field Service employees, wherever possible.
When a vacancy occurs in a "Field" Clerk/Dispatcher position, other "Field" Clerk/Dispatchers will have an opportunity to fill the vacancy prior to the vacancy being offered to the "Dispatch" Clerk/Dispatchers and vice versa.
In the event of a lateral move by a "Field" Clerk/Dispatcher, the opening will be offered to "Dispatch" Clerk/Dispatchers before it is posted for Field Service employees and vice versa.
-256-
LETTI-RS OI; AGREEMENT
LETTER #21 Welder Classification Agreement
The purpose of this letter is to confirm the understanding reached between the parties during the 1997 contract negotiations in regards to the welder classification.
The parties agree to the following:
1. The Company will immediately place the two incumbent employees currently doing welding work into this classification at the general fitter rate of pay.
2. By March 30, 1998, to have the two (2) incumbent welders fully trained.
3. The third welding position will be filled six (6) months after the signing of the contract. The third welder, if hired from outside the Company, will be paid the welder/general fitter rate of pay as of the first day of employment.
4. A separate overtime list will be established for the welders, however, after the overtime list has been exhausted in Distribution and all employees have been asked to work (includes weekdays, weekends, holidays) and a need for an additional employee(s) is required, qualified welders will be asked to work.
5. The welder classification will be classified as a skilled trade under Article XII and Article XI.
6. When welding work is not available, the employee shall be required to perform the duties listed in the general fitter classification. In the event of lack of work, the employee/employees will be assigned by the lowest Distribution Department seniority to perform those duties:
7. Incumbent welders may exercise their rights under the Collective Bargaining Agreement to return to their former classification within 90 days of February 9, 1998.
8. Carharts, if damaged beyond repair, will be replaced. However, no more than one (I) replacement will be allowed during the contract.
9. Unless specified otherwise hereinabove, the terms and conditions set forth in the Collective Bargaining Agreement, which includes but is not limited to, safety shoes, scheduling of Saturdays, etc., shall remain in effect. -257-
LETTERS OI= AGREEMENT
LETTER #22 EXPEDITED ARBITRATION PROCESS
To facilitate the arbitration process provided for under Article 1 (4) of the contract, the parties agree as follows:
(1) The grievance must be filed within five_(5) calendar days of the conclusion of the negotiating period. If no grievance is filed within this time limit, the matter shall be closed_and the modification or new rule or regulation shall become effective.
(2) The following arbitrators have been approved by the Employer and the Union to hear disputes under this Article I. Section 4
#1
#4
#2
#5
#3
#6
From this approved list, the arbitrator shall he selected by lot (draw). In the event the selected arbitrator cannot agree to hear and decide the matter in accordance with the provisions set forth belowt the arbitrators shall be contacted in numerical order until an arbitrator is selected. e.g.. if arbitrator #4 is selected, the arbitrators shall he contacted in this order: #4. #5. #6. #1. #2. #3. etc.
--
The Company acknowledges that the rights of the parties as they relate to the responsibility for working on live gas are preserved.
It is further agreed that Local #80 shall have the_exclusive responsibility for working on situations involving the uncontrolled release of gas into the environment.
The Company also agrees that in the event it decides to perform work relating to the controlled release of gas, in a manner other than established practices, it will first meet with Local #80 to provide them with the opportunity to present alternative solutions to the Company prior to the Company implementing any such planned changes.
LETTER #27 Pension Letter
The parties have agreed to meet during .lune 2002. to determine if Local #80 is prepared to agree to a new reduced rate of 60% for new hires from the street, as well as transferees from the Meter Reading or Stock Departments into Field Service or Distribution Departments. This understanding will not otherwise operate as a contract re-opener at any time during the term of the current contract.
By way of illustration: Employees hiring into the Company or employees transferring with less than three years of service with the Company from the Meter Reading Department or the Technical Field Assistant classification will receive 60% of the Field Operator Apprentice rate of pay in accordance with the agreed upon progression between the Company and the Union dated June 2.1999. Employees with three years or more who transfer from the above areas will receive the appropriate Field Operator Apprentice rate per the agreed upon progression schedule agreed upon by the parties on .lune 2. 1999.
If Local #80 agrees to this new reduced starting rate as provided herein. then in consideration thereof, the Company would agree to increase the retirement Thirty (30) and Out Supplement to $2.200 effective January 1. 2003.
-261-
LETTERS Or AGREEMENT
LETTER #28
Absence Monitoring Program
This letter is to confirm the Agreement to return to monitoring absences under the former Ahsence Improvement Plan (AIP). The name of the program was changed during negotiations to the Ahsence Monitoring Program (AMP). The following write-up reflects the highlights of the program. including the two improvements to the plan to add an additional Step and to change an occurrence from 4 hours to 8 hours.
Ahsence Monitoring Program (AMP)
The AMP monitors non-FML absences that are taken for Sick-Self. Sick Family (unpaid). Elimination Sick (unpaid) and Elimination Vacation. Employee's absences are monitored on a rolling twelve (12) month period. Employees who have non-FML absences that exceed 41 hours will receive a counseling letter that places them in the program. Once an employee is placed in the program, they will he monitored on a calendar year from the last date of disability as follows (Leave Davs will be counted once in the program).
Binary file (standard input) matches
