=== HEALTHCARE EXTRACTION: CBA_06 ===
Source: C:/Users/zachary.parolin/INETInequality Dropbox/INET Inequality Team/Projects/LLMs & Inequality/1_CBAs/Cornell Archive/Cornell-DoL/3693ABBYY.pdf
Total document lines: 3860
Extracted healthcare lines: 752
===========================================

Article III HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME

A. Workweek and workday B. Consecutive Hours of Work C. Shift Hours D. Shift Differentials E. Overtime Premium F. Apportionment of Overtime G. Special Workweek H. Report Time I. Call Back Pay J. Rest Periods K. General
7
,
B
,,..,,,..,,.., 8
10
.
12
13
Section
IMDBX
--
Article VIII GROUP BENEFITS
A. Employee and Dependent Medical Coverage
. 30
B. Vision Care
33
C. Accidental Death and Dismemberment insurance ......... 33
D. Short Term Disability
E. Long Term Disability
. 34
F. Occupational Long Term Disability
34
G. Basic Life Insurance Plan .,
,,
35
H. Optional Group Life Insurance
I. Dependent Life Insurance
J. Retired Employees Medical Benefits
36
K. Retiree Group Life Insurance Plan
37
L. Flexible Spending Account ... .,
38
M. Prepaid Legal Program
39
N. General Provisions
Article IX RETIREMENT
A. Contributory Retirement Plan Benefits
B. Non-Contributory Retirement Benefits
41
Article X THE SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN
A. Savings and Investment Plan
42
B. Long Service Layoff Plan
-
43
--
iti
Section A. Dental Plans
INDEX
Article XI DENTAL PLANS
Page 44
Article XII JURY DUTY
A. Eligibility
45
B. Notification of Employer
46
C. Effect on Hoi iday Pay
Article XIII FLIGHT PAY AND FLIGHT INSURANCE
A. Flight Pay ....,
B. Computation of Plight Pay
C. Flight Insurance
D. Travel Accident and Special Hazards Insurance
47 , 47
A. Policy
Article XIV ANNUAL MILITARY TRAINING
--
7, Two (2) overtime and/or premium rates shall not be paid for the same hours of work; i .e., there shall be no pyramiding or duplication of such rates.
Section F. Apportionment of Overtime
1. It is the Employer' s intention to give as much advance
notice as possible when overtime is necessary. It is
recognized that occasionally employees may not desire to
work a particular assignment. Therefore, when overtime
assignments are made, employees who do not desire to work
such overtime shall make their reasons known to
supervision.
If such reasons are acceptable to
supervision, in view of production requirements and other
circumstances involved, such employees will be excused
from the overtime assignment and will not be subject to
discipline for declining the overtime, but will be
credited on the overtime records for the time not worked.
Additionally, if the affected employee is not given
notice of an overtime assignment by the end of his/her
shift on Thursday for a weekend overtime assignment, or
the start of his/her lunch period for a weekday overtime
assignment or 72 hours for a holiday assignment, and the
employee is unable to work the overtime as a result,
he/she will also be excused from the overtime assignment.
--
review interval,
2, It is agreed that over a period of time the employer will apportion overtime equitably and fairly by job classification in the type of work requiring overtime. The overtime will be apportioned among the full-time active employees in such Job Classification, within the Section of the Department, and on the Shift, where the overtime is necessary; provided the employee is capable of performing such overtime work efficiently. Overtime records will subsequently be reviewed on the first Friday in Hay and first Friday in November of each year. When the number of hours charged* to the employee with the highest total overtime hours in the overtime group on the first Friday in May or first Friday in November exceeds that of another employee in his/her overtime group by more than seventy-five (75) hours, the employee (s) who has/have been charged with less overtime will be paid the number of hours in excess of seventy-five (75). An employee who is paid for overtime hours under this provision will then be charged with the number of hours paid.
* Charged Hours:
O/T equals 1.5 D/T equals 2.0
-10-
3. Uniform overtime records will be maintained in accordance with the above paragraph in a manner determined by the respective overtime center. The overtime records will be posted in the overtime center and updated weekly. The Department Steward and the Supervisor will meet once a month to review overtime records in each overtime center.
4. In connection with the apportionment of overtime, as agreed to above, employees who are hired, rehired, or recalled from layoff will be credited on the overtime records with the maximum number of hours credited to the employees in the work group to which they are assigned. Employees who are transferred from one work group to another will be credited on the overtime records with the average* number of hours credited to the employees in the work group to which they are assigned.
Employees who are absent from work for any reason for a period of time not exceeding two (2) calendar months will be charged for any overtime which they would have been offered had they not been absent, when an employee who is absent for more than two (2) calendar months returns to work, he/Bhe will be charged with the average* number of overtime hours charged in his/her overtime group during the period of absence in excess of two (2) calendar months.
Employees returning from loan will be charged with their OT hours in effect at the time of loan, plus all additional hours charged to them while on loan. However, such hours will not be more than SO hours lesa than the lowest OT hours, nor more than the 50 hours greater than the highest OT hours in the respective OT group to which they return. However, no employee will be returned with fewer hours than they had accumulated at the time they were originally loaned out. If such an employee, upon return to his/her overtime center, accumulated seventyfive (75) or more hours while on loan than the low person in his/her center, the Company will not be obligated for any apportionment payout provided such employee does not work any overtime that is not first offered to other employees in the employee'B overtime center while he/she continues to have an apportionment imbalance of seventyfive (75) hours or more.
* Average: All charged overtime hours divided by the number of employees in the overtime center.
5. Employees required to work mandatory weekend overtime on three (3) consecutive weekends shall not be required to work the fourth [4th) weekend, except in cases of National emergency.
6. Employees will not be required to work mandatory overtime on the weekend, preceding or following a vacation of at least one (1) week, except in cases of National emergency.
-II-
7, In the assignment of overtime during the normal workweek, an employee required to start work earlier than hie or her normal starting time during his or her regular workweek, will be scheduled to work to the completion of his or her normal work shift.
8. Employee classified as working leaders shall not be placed in separate overtime centers.
Section a. Special Workweek
1. It ia agreed the Employer may schedule days off, other than Saturday or Sunday, and/or shifts other than normal hours of work, (a) in connection with continuous twentyfour (24) hour, seven <7) day operations which have been established by past practice, or (b) are required because of emergencies or special conditions.
2. The term "special conditions" in this Section shall also include operations such as the conducting of environmental, reliability, life and related tests of equipment and products.
3. For employees so assigned, their first regularly scheduled day off shall be considered as their "Saturday" (1st day); and their second regularly scheduled day off shall be considered their "Sunday" (2nd day).
4. Overtime will be paid in accordance with Section E,
Section H. Report Time
1. An employee scheduled and reporting for work at the beginning of the shift shall be assigned a minimum of four (4) hours work. If, in the Employer's determination, no work is available, such an employee shall receive four (4) hours pay, as Report Time, at the rate he or she would have received had he or she worked. Failure of an employee to keep the Employer informed of his or her correct address and telephone number shall relieve the Employer of responsibility for notification and payment of Report Time.
2. Report Time shall not be paid if no work is available due to failure of utilities, fire, Btorm or flood conditions, damage to buildings or equipment, or any cauBe beyond the control of the Employer. In such cases the Employer shall not be responsible for notification to employees that no work is available.
Section I. Call Back Pay
1. An employee who has left the plant after his or her regular workday and is called back for an emergency or special work assignment, of short duration, less than four (4) hours, shall receive a minimum of four (4) hours work or four (4) hours pay. In computing such pay, hours not worked shall be considered as straight time hours, and hours worked shall be considered as straight time or overtime hours, whichever is applicable under the provisions of Section E of this Article.
-12-
--
1. The Management may, in accordance with its operations requirements, delete, establish or revise Job Classifications together with Job Descriptions and rates of pay therefore. The Employer agrees that it will promptly notify the Senior Business Representative, by registered or certified mail of any such intent, and the Designated Organization where the Job Classification is to be used or deleted.
2. In the event the Union does not choose to reply to such letter referred to in Section G.l. above, within fifteen (15) working days, such new, revised or deleted Job Classification shall become effective and shall constitute agreement by the parties and shall not thereafter be subject to the Grievance Procedure.
3. In the event the Union desires to confer concerning the rate range and labor grade assigned to such new or revised Job Classification, they will notify the Manager, Labor Relations, Human Resources, by registered or certified mail within fifteen (IS) working days of receipt of the letter referred to in Section G.l. requesting a conference which shall be held within five (S) working days following receipt by the Employer of the Union's letter. The meeting shall be scheduled with the following Committee in attendance: The Senior Business Representative and Assistant Senior Business Representative, one (1) Senior Steward and one (1) Department Steward from the affected area, the Manager, Labor Relations, Human Resources, and two (2) other Employer Representatives. Upon request, the Union shall be given the opportunity to view the work operations in the area involved. In the event agreement is not reached within such five 15) day period, the Employer may then place the Job Classification into effect.
-17-
4. if the matter is not disposed of under the provisions of Sections G.2. and G.3., and the Union desires to refer it to Che Grievance Procedure, they must do so within twenty (20} working day from che date of receipt of the Company letter referred to in Section G.l. The grievance shall be signed by the Senior Business Representative or Assistant Senior Business Representative. Such grievance shall be confined to the rate range and labor grade assigned and placed into Step Two of the Grievance procedure.
5. A new Bargaining Unit Job Classification will not be added during the term of this Agreement where an existing Job Classification duplicates it to the extent of prescribing the identical duties and qualifications.
a. In accordance with its operational requirements, the Company may, from time to time, develop additional job classifications. The Company shall not install separate job classifications for the sole purpose of affecting the application of seniority, solely for the purpose of creating seniority barriers.
b. It is recognized that the establishment of any job classification affects seniority. Where the duties and qualifications of a job are identical to an existing classification, the establishment of such new job classification would be subject to the grievance procedure,
c. The splitting off of job duties from an existing job classification or the combining of existing job duties into new or revised job classifications and the establishment of new job classifications continues to be a funccion of Kanagemenc. However, if as the results of such action a job classification is established which then duplicates an existing job classification by prescribing identical duties and qualifications, it would be a violation of this Section.
6. Any grievance concerning section G.S. shall toe placed into Step Two of the Grievance Procedure. The grievance shall be signed by the Senior Business Representative and Assistant Senior Business Representative.
Section B. Working Lead*r
l. Upon appointment as working Leader, an employee shall receive a premium of forty cents (40CI per hour over his or her base rate of pay or over the maximum rate of the highest paid Job Classification assigned to any employee the Working Leader is leading, whichever is greater.
-18-
2. The Working Leader premium shall be included in pay Cor Sick Leave, Holidays, vacations, Overtime, Shift Differentials, Jury Duty, Annual Military Training and Bereavement Pay.
3. A Temporary Working Leader shall receive the Working Leader premium provided herein from the first day of assignment provided the appointment is for one (1) calendar week or more, However, he or she may be designated to act as Temporary Working Leader for a period not to exceed three (3) weeks at any one time.
4. In the selection of a working leader, the employees with the longest actual service in the Job Classification from which the Working Leader appointment will be made in the Section, then in the Department, shall be given first consideration provided he or she possess the qualifications, ability to lead the group to which he or she may be appointed, physical fitness to perform the duties and satisfactory conduct and attendance records.
5. Working Leader shall not be considered a separate job classification for purposes of layoff and recall.
Section I. Qeneral
1. No employee shall receive a reduction in rate of pay due
to the signing of this Agreement, except as specifically
provided.
However, this shall not preclude the
assignment of Job Classifications and rates of pay in
accordance with the work being performed and as
established by the parties.
2. Hourly paid employees shall be paid every two weeks on a day designated by the Employer. For the purpose of facilitating the handling of the payroll, the Employer shall continue the practice of "overlapping" which results in a pay holding back period of one (1) week.
3. Employees on the payroll prior to December 6, 1970 in Labor Grades 1 and 2 (old Labor Grades 1A, 2A and 3A) shall continue to receive the forty eight (48C) as a Personal Rate of pay.
-19-
ABTICLB V HOLIDAYS
Section A. Recognised Holidays
1. The following are paid Holidays for eligible employees when such Holidays occur and are observed within the period covered by this Collective Bargaining Agreement:
2005 Monday, May 30 Monday, July 4 Tuesday, July 5 Monday, September 5 Thursday, November 24 Friday, November 25 Monday, December 26 Tuesday, December 27 Wednesday, December 28 Thursday, December 29 Friday, December 30
2006 Monday, January 2 Monday, May 29 Monday, Jury 3 Tuesday, July 4 Monday, September 4 Thursday, November 23 Friday, November 24 Monday, December 25 Tuesday, December 26 Wednesday, December 27 Thursday, December 28 Friday, December 29
2007
Monday, January 1 Monday, May 28 Wednesday, July 4 Monday, September 3 Thursday, November 22 Friday, November 23 Monday, December 24 Tuesday, December 25 Wednesday, December 26 Thursday, December 27 Friday, December 28 Monday, December 31
2008
Tuesday, January 1
-20-
Saction B. Holiday Pay
1. Holiday pay for a day or swing shift employee shall be eight (8) hours at straight time the employee's pay rate. Holiday pay for a graveyard shift employee shall be six and one-half (6-1/2) hours at straight time the employee's graveyard pay rate.
2. Holiday pay shall not be paid to an employee (if who terminates for any reason and does not work a full shift on his or her regularly scheduled working day after a holiday is observed,* or 12) is hired and starts working on the day after a Holiday is observed; or (3) is recalled from a layoff and starts working the day after a Holiday is observed.
3. In the event an employee is terminated for any reason the day before a Holiday, the employee shall be ineligible for Holiday pay, except as provided in Section C.l.g. and h. of this Article.
--
1. Extended Paid Time Off, in conjunction with Article VIII, Group Benefits, Section D. Short Term Disability^ may be granted for serious personal illness or injury of an employee which requires an absence of more than seven (7) consecutive calendar days beginning with the first day the etrgployee is unable to report to work. Certification from the employee's doctor indicating a disability start date and an estimated return to work date is required. If Extended Sick Leave is authorized, the employee need not use regular sick Leave first. Use of Extended Sick Leave requires the approval of the Major Organization Head or designee.
Section V. Integration of Sick Leave and Extended Sick Leave
l. Regular Sick Leave and/or Extended Paid Time Off payments are integrated or reduced by State Unemployment Compensation Disability Insurance, or other CompanysponBored disability insurance benefits for which the employee is eligible for the same time period, whether applied for or not. As a condition of receiving Extended Paid Time Off payments and/or regular Sick Leave payments, the Employer shall deduct from subsequent weekly paychecks (whether regular or Extended Sick Leave payments or regular wages) any overpayment ot wages resulting from the integration with Extended Sick Leave payments and/or regular Sick Leave payments. If an overpayment balance iB owing at the time of the employee's termination, the Employer is authorized to deduct said balance from the employee's final wages.
--
6. In order to be properly paid, an employee must apply for
California Unemployment Compensation Disability Insurance
(California Disability Insurance) benefits.
Full
responsibility for claiming disability benefits rests with
the employee. Time on Extended sick fceave, including
regular Sick Leave, counts as waiting time under
disability plans. Disability benefits available for time
lost from work because of a job-incurred illness or injury
are provided in accordance with applicable Workers'
Compensation laws.
7. Extended Paid Time Off is not paid-off at the time of termination.
ARTICLE VIII QROUP BENEFITS
Section A. Employee and Dependent Medical coverage
1. The Medical Plan coverage will continue to be made available to eligible employees and eligible dependents providing those benefits as were agreed upon during negotiations of this Agreement between the Union and the Employer. The plan is subject to the terms, conditions and exclusions contained in the Plan Documents and is summarized in a Summary Plan Description which the Employer shall provide to eligible employees.
2. The Medical Flan will be administered by the Employer in accordance with the provisions of the Medical Plan Document prepared by the Employer.
-30-
The Employer agrees, during the term of this Agreement, to offer to the employees covered by the Agreement, when and to the extent required by Public Law 93-222, the Health Maintenance Act of 1973, such optional provisions for health services as may be required by that law as an alternative to the Medical Plan which is provided for in this Agreement,
The Employer agrees, during the term of this Agreement, to offer the employees covered by this Agreement, a Medical Plan or a Health Maintenance Organization (HMO). Each employee shall have the option of electing the Medical Plan or an HMO for the employee and the employee's eligible dependents. No employee may be covered by more than one plan,
Plan Design; Effective January 1, 2006, the POS, HMO, and PPO plans offered will be the same plan designs as offered to the salaried population for 2005, as presented in negotiations. These plan designs will remain "frozen" for the duration of the contract,
Contribution Rates; Effective January 1, 2006, and for each subsequent year of the contract employee contribution rates towards the premiums for the medical plans outlined in paragraph 5 above, will be the lesser of the negotiated maximums shown below or the contribution rate being paid by the salaried employees for the same plan, as follows:
Effective January 1, 2006 Employes Bi-Weekly Contribution*
Coverage Level
POS Plan Health Net
Employee Only $31.25
HMO Plan Health Net
$20.45
HMO Plan Kaiser
$20.14
optional pro United Health
Care
$74.92
Employee fc Spouse
Employee, Child(ren)
Employee & Family
$65.64 $G1.33 $97.99
$44.03 $39.84 $63.41
$42.77 $38.94 $54.66
$171.06 $141.47 $230,22
-31-
Effective January 1, 2007 Employee Bi-Weekly Contribution*
coverage Level
POS P l a n Health Net
Employee Only
$37.SO
Employee & Spouse
Employee U Family
$78.77 $73.59 $117.56
$24.54
$S2.B3
$47.Bl
$76.09
HMO P l a n Kaiser $24.17
$S1,32
$46.72
$65.59
O p t i o n a l FPO United Health Care
$89.90
$205.27
$169.77
$276,27
Einployee, Child(ren)
E f f e c t i v e January 1 , 20D8 employe* Bi-Meekly Contribution*
POS P l a n lealth Net
"JJLfih11 w,, e*t
HM0 P l a n
Kaiser
O p t i o n a l PPO United Health Core
$45,00
529.45
$29.01
$107,B6
$94.52
$63.40
$61.59
$246.33
SSB.U
$57.37
$56.07
$203.12
$141.10
$91.31
$76.71
$331,52
Decline Medical/Vision Coverage - Receive cash back of $1,000.00 payable in equal installments, except in those situations where the employee's spouse is employed by Raytheon.
NOTE: Medical/Vision/EAP Plan vendors may change during term of agreement.
New Medical Plan Options: Effective January 1, 2006, in addition to the medical plans referenced above, the employer will also offer to eligible employees the opportunity to participate in any other medical plans offered to salaried employees at the location, on the same basis and at the same contribution level as is offered those salaried employees, from year to year. Currently those plans include Definity Health coWSilver/Bronze end Tricare supplement Plan.
-32-
Section B. Vision Care
1. The Employer agrees, during the term of this Agreement, that a vision Care Plan will continue to be made available to active employees and eligible dependents who have elected to participate in any of the Company's medical plana. There will be no additional premium for this coverage. The Vision Care Plan provides examinations each 12 months, lenses and frames each 24 months. The employee co-payment is $10 for a vision exam, with an additional $10 for lenses and frames up to a maximum copayment of $20 per person. This plan design shall be "frozen" for the duration of this contract,
Section C. Accidental Death and Dismwabcrmwit Xnsuranc*
1. The Employer agrees that an Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance Plan will be made available on the same basis as is offered salaried employees, from year to year, for the duration of this contract. The current plan design provides for an employee benefit of up to a maximum of five (5) times annual base pay; an optional spousal benefit equal to 60* of employee coverage, and an optional benefit for each child equal to 15% of employee coverage.
2. Enrolled employees shall contribute, on a pre-tax basis, the premium amount appropriate for the amount and type of coverage elected.
3. The premium rates will be subject to change based upon claims experience.
4. The Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance Plan will be administered by the Employer in accordance with the provisions of the insurance policy prepared and issued by the insurance carrier.
Section D. Short Tern Disability
1. Two Short Term Disability <STD) Plans will be offered. Effective January 1, 2006, STD will be offered on the same plan design and at the same contribution level as is offered salaried employees, from year to year, for the duration of this contract:
a. Effective January 1, 2006, Basic Plan design provides benefits equal to 75% of weekly base pay for up to 10 weeks at no cost to the employee,
b. Effective January 1, 2006, Plus Plan design provides for the same coverage as provided in Section D.l.a. above, with additional coverage of 25% of weekly base pay for which employees shall pay an annual premium.
-33-
2. The Short Term Disability Plan will be administered by the Employer in accordance with the provisions of the Short Term Disability Insurance Policy prepared and issued by the insurance carrier.
Section B. Long Tern Disability
1. Two Long Term Disability {LTD) Plans will be offered. Effective January 1, 2006, LTD will be offered on the same plan design and at the same contribution level as is offered salaried employees, from year to year, for the duration of this contract:
(a) Basic Plan provides benefits equal to 50% of weekly base pay to age 65.
(b) Plus Plan provides benefits equal to 60* of weekly base pay to age 65.
(c) Employees who elect coverage under the Basic Plan or Plus Plan shall pay an annual premium appropriate for the type of coverage elected period. Deductions will be made on a per pay period basis.
2. The Long Term Disability Plan will be administered by the Employer in accordance with the provisions of the Long Term Disability Insurance Policy prepared and issued by the insurance carrier.
3. The Employer may revise the Plan as required to comply with State and Federal regulations and laws.
Section P, Occupational Long Tarm Disability
1. T O be eligible to participate in the Occupational LTD plan;
(a} An employee must be enrolled in the Long Term Disability Plan
(b) An employee must have an annual salary of $50,000 or more
(c) An employee must be out of work because of a workrelated illness or injury for more than the duration of the STD program in consecutive weeks as well as be under the regular care and attendance of a doctor.
2. Chosen coverage for the Occupational LTD must equal the employee's Long Term Disability coverage percentage (either 50% or 60S of base payl.
3. The Occupational Long Term Disability Plan will be administered by the Employer in accordance with the provisions of the Occupational Long Term Disability Insurance Policy prepared and issued by the insurance carrier.
4. The Employer may revise the Plan as required to comply with State and Federal regulations and laws.
-34-
Section Q. Basic Life Insurance Plan
1. Effective January 1, 2006, the basic life coverage amount for eligible employees will be offered at no cost to the employee on the same basis as is offered to salaried employees, from year to year, for the duration of this contract, currently one (1) times annual base salary,
2. The Basic Life Insurance Plan will be administered by the Employer in accordance with the provisions of the Basic Life policies of insurance prepared and issued by the insurance carrier.
Section H. Optional Group Lire insurance
1. The Employer agrees to offer the Optional Group Life Insurance Plan for purchase by eligible employees on the same basis as is offered salaried employees, from year to year, for the duration of this contract, in accordance with the following:
(a) Employees shall be considered eligible while insured under the Group Life Insurance Plan.
(b> Under the current plan design coverage amount may be either one times (IX), two times (2K), three times O X ) , four times (4X), or five times (5X) an employee's annual Base Salary. The coverage level elected by an employee may be reduced by an employee. However, after initial enrollment, coverage level may not be increased without the approval of the insurance company. Effective January 1, 1991, the amount of Optional Life Insurance coverage is no longer reduced for employees who continue working for the Employer beyond age 65. During Annual enrollment periods employees may increase coverage level by one (1) times Annual Base salary without proof of insurability.
2. Employees who elect this coverage shall pay a premium which is subject to change based on claims experience or changes in Internal Revenue table rates.
3. Optional Group Life Insurance Plan will be administered by the Employer in accordance with the provisions of the applicable Optional Group Life Insurance Policy issued to the Employer by the insurance carrier.
Section I. Dependent Life Insurance
1. The Employer will continue to offer coverage for Dependent Life Insurance for the employee's spouse and/or child(renf on the same baeis as is offered salaried employees, from year to year, for the duration of this contract. Under the current plan design employees may
-35-
purchase coverage for the spouse in benefit amounts from $10,000 to $50,000. Employees may also purchase coverage for child(ren) in benefit amounts from $5,000 to $25,000. Two premium amounts have been established for each level of benefit coverage available, for the spouse coverage level, one for smokers, the other for non-smokers,
2. The Dependent Life Insurance will be administered by the Employer in accordance with the provisions of the policy issued by the insurance carrier, premiums will be subject to change based on claims experience.
Section J. Ratired Employees Medical Benefits
1. For employeea who hereafter retire, with at least three (3) years of continuous participation in the contributory benefit of the Retirement Plan or Non-Contributory Retirement Plan immediately preceding the employee's date of retirement, and who are at least age fifty-five (55) but less than age sixty-five (65) and who have five (5) or more years of continuous employment with the Employer, the Employer agrees to continue to provide the Medical Plan coverages for which they were covered while active employees, until the retired employee attains age sixtyfive (65> , and shall likewise continue the same Medical Plan coverages for his or her eligible spouse until the spouse attains age sixty-five(651. Coverage shall be continued under this provision for the retired employee's dependent child until the child reaches age nineteen (19) or age twenty-five (2S), if attending an accredited college, university, or a comparable educational institution as a full-time student. Insurance coverage will also continue under the Plan with no age limit for totally disabled dependent children of the employee over age nineteen (19) while totally disabled and qualifying under the Internal Revenue Code as a "dependent" of the employee,
Medical deductibles for retirees will be the same as for active employees,
HMO coverage will continue to be available.
2. Retired Employees Medical Benefits will be administered by the Employer in accordance with the provisions of the Medical Plan Document prepared by the Employer,
3, If the insured retired employee under this Section I becomes deceased prior to reaching age sixty-five (6S), the insurance in force on the deceased retiree's eligible dependent spouse shall continue in effect until the earlier of the date the retiree would have been age sixty-five (65) or, the date the spouse of the deceased retiree remarries or, in the case of the deceased retiree's dependent children, the date the retiree would have been age sixty-five (65), or the date such children cease to be eligible for coverage because of age as stated under this Section I, paragraph 1.
-36-
4. The Employer agrees to allow eligible employees to continue their coverage in the HMO in which enrolled at the time of retirement. Eligibility requirements for cantinuation of HMO coverage at retirement will be the same as those currently specified for the Medical Plan in paragraph 1, above.
5. Employees who retire under the provisions of the noncontributory benefit of the Retirement Plan will receive medical coverage aa set forth above provided the retiree pays the cost of the coverage plug a two percent (21J administrative fee.
6. The Employer agrees, during the term of this Agreement, that a Medicare Supplemental Insurance Plan will be made available for all retired employees over age sixty-five (65) who retire on or after January 1, 1999, and for their spouse.
The Medicare Supplemental insurance Plan which supplements Medicare Hospital and Medical Benefits, will be administered by the Employer in accordance with provisions of the Certificate of Insurance prepared and issued by the insurance carrier and distributed to retired employees.
Eligible retired employees who enroll in the Medicare Supplemental Insurance Plan shall contribute the appropriate monthly premium based on the plan selected.
This premium will be subject to change based on claims experience.
Section K. ttatire* Group Life Insurance Plan
1. The Employer agrees to continue to offer Life Insurance effective January 1, 1993 at no cost to the retired employee during the first five (5) years of retirement to eligible employees retiring during the term of this Agreement who have completed at least five (5) years or more of continuous employment, The coverage amount iB determined by the following schedule.
Year of Retirement
First Year Second Year Third year Fourth Year Fifth Year Sixth Year & After
Coverage amount* as a Percentage of Base Annual Rate of Earnings
SO* but not more than $50,000 601 but not more than $50,000 401 but not more than $50,000 201 but not more than $50,000 10* but not more than $50,000 55, 00** at a cost to retiree
of $S0/year
-37-
* If the coverage amount is not an even multiple of $100, it will be rounded up to the next multiple of $100.
** Starting -with the sixth year following retirement, coverage will continue only if retired employee contributes $50/year toward premium cost.
2, Coverage amounts of Retiree Life Insurance are based on a percentage of the retirees final annual base rate of earnings as of the date of retirement, exclusive of overtime, shift differential, or similar payments and bonuses.
3. Commencing with the sixth (6th) year following the date of retirement, retired employees will be offered $5,000 of life insurance at a cost of $50.00 year.
Section L. Flexible Spending Account
1. The Employer agrees to offer employees covered by this Agreement two Flexible Spending Accounts on the same basis as is offered salaried employees, from year to year, for the duration of this contract. The accounts will be a health care reimbursement account and a dependent care reimbursement account.
2. The health care reimbursement account will allow employees to make an annual election to defer up to $5,000 of base pay which may be used to pay for medical expenses not reimbursed by any other benefit plan.
3. The dependent care reimbursement account will allow employees to m^Oce an annual election to defer up to $5,000 of base pay which may be used to pay for allowable dependent care expenses.
4. The base pay deferrals will be made in equal payroll deductions throughout the year. Employees will submit covered billB to an administrator named by the Company for reimbursement. The Company will bear all administrative expenses. The Company will also provide FSft enrolleeB with FSA debit cards that may be used in lieu of the current reimbursement method.
5. Any deferrals in excesB of incurred expenses at the end of the plan year cannot be carried forward to the next plan year nor returned to the employee.
6. The Employer agrees to offer this plan so long as it is qualified under the applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. A copy of the Sunsnary Plan Description will be provided to employees and will govern administration of the plan.
-38-
Section M. Prepaid Legal Program
1. Effective January I, 2006, employees may elect participate in a prepaid legal program on the same basis is offered salaried employees, from year to year, for the duration of the contract.
Section N. General Provisions
1. Employeea may elect between different levels of benefit coverage. These levels are: (a) employee,- (b) employee and spouse; Ic) employee and child(ren) ,- (d) employee, spouse, and child(ren); and te) decline all health care coverage. Employees may select a different level of coverage for medical/vision and dental.
2. Effective January 1, 1999 employees, including all eligible dependents, hired on or after this date will become immediately eligible for all benefits.
Employees will be provided information to enroll in their Plan choices, Decline all medical/vision coverage, Medical/Vision, Dental, ADfcD, FSA's, STD, LTD and all OLI'e. Plan coverage will become effective on the date of hire. No EOI or dependent eligibility back-up documentation will be required for new hire enrollments.
3. Rates for employee optional life insurance, spouse life insurance & accidental death and dismemberment (AD&D) insurance will be "unfrozen." This means that, for the duration of the contract, rates will be adjusted for participants in these plans when they either experience a change in pay or reach a new age category.
I. Nothing herein shall change any benefits in the Group Benefit Plans provided under this Article VIII as currently in effect, other than those changes specifically referred to herein. Employer reserves the right to amend or terminate said plans and from time to time to clarify plan provisions and Co maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
5. All benefits of employees, retired employees, laid off employees and insured dependents are subject in every respect to the terms of the applicable Plan documents under which payment is claimed.
ARTICLE IX RBTIRBHEHT
Section A, Contributory Retirement Plan Benefits
1. The Employer agrees, during the term of this Agreement that the Retirement Plan, so long as it is qualified under the applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, shall be made available to those qualifying employees covered by this Agreement to the same extent and in the same manner as provided immediately prior to the execution of this Agreement except as provided for below.
-39-
2, Monthly "Normal Retirement Benefits" under the Plan for participants separating from the Service after November 2, 19 65 and retiring effective on or after January 1, 1986 will be computed as the greater of:
(a) Career Average formula - One twenty-fourth (l/24th) of the participant' e contributions to the Plan plus credited monthly past service credits for contributions and service prior to January 1, 1986; and 1% of the first $3600 of Plan Compensation plus 2% of Plan Compensation in excess of $3600 for each year of contributions and service from January 1, 1986.
(b) Minimum Benefit formula - $13.00 per month plus onehalf of one percent (1/2*) of the participant's five (S) years average monthly compensation for the five highest of his or her last ten qualifying twelve {12) Accounting Month periods as a contributing member of the Plan including those years for which past service was credited, or;
(c) Final Average Compensation formula - One and threequarters percent (1-3/4%) of the participant's five fS) years average monthly compensation for the five (5) highest of his or her last ten (10) qualifying twelve (12) Accounting Month periods offset by one and one-half percent (1-1/21) of the estimated "primary Insurance Amount" determined under the Federal Social Security Act for each year that the participant contributed to the Plan, including those years for which past service was credited. The maximum offset is fifty percent (50%) of the estimated monthly "Primary Insurance Amount" benefit. Benefits payable under this formula will be in accordance with applicable Internal Revenue Service Code provisions and regulations and other applicable legal requirements as may be issued.
3. Required Participant Contributions are 3% of Compensation.
4. The Normal Retirement Age is sixty-five (65) years, whether or not an employee participates in the Retirement Plan. An employee may work past the Normal Retirement Age.
5. The Retirement Plan will be administered by the "Administrator" as defined in the Retirement Plan. A copy of the Summary Plan Description will be provided to employees.
6. Any significant change in the Retirement Plan benefits affecting employees in the Bargaining Unit shall be made only after negotiations with the Union.
-40-
7. The Employer shall qualify, re-qualify and amend the Retirement Plan and any administrative procedure or operational rule relating thereto as necessary in order to comply with the requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 as it may be amended, and any regulation or other administrative ruling issued thereunder, or any other present or future law, regulation or ruling issued under such law requiring amendment of the Retirement Plan or otherwise affecting; its operation in any significant manner.
All of such actions of the Employer may be done if they are either necessary for the purpose of maintaining the qualified statUB of the Retirement Plan including setting actuarial assumptions established by the actuary and submitted to the Administrator in order to compute benefits.
8. The term "Retirement Plan" used in this Agreement means the Raytheon Company Retirement Plan which by its terms applies to employees covered by the Agreement.
9. The Retirement Plan includes a special layoff provision which is available, at the individuals election, to employees who are laid off and have fifteen (15) or more years of service, are age fifty (SO) or older and are within five (S) years of reaching the "Rule of 75" date. The special layoff provision provides: a benefit equal to the employee's accrued benefit less one and one-half (1.5*) percent for every month the employee retires prior to the "Rule of 75" date; a yearly cost of living increase up to four (4%) percent per year; no Company paid medical, however, after COBRA coverage ends retiree will be able to purchase medical coverage up to age 65 at actual cose plus a 2fc administrative fee, and; employee will be covered by Retiree Life Insurance.
Section S. Kon>Contributory Retirement Benefits
1. Effective May 4, 1992, a non-contributory benefit will be provided for all employees hired or rehired after November 2, 1991 and for existing employees who chose the non-contributory option prior to May 1, 1992. The noncontributory benefit, for those participating in it will supersede the benefit described in Section A of this Article. In addition, employees who were laid off prior to May 4, 1992 and recalled within five years of having been laid off had thirty 00} days to choose from either the contributory or the non-contributory retirement plan benefit provided the employee had not previously made this election. Employees who are laid off after May 4, 1992 and recalled must remain in the same retirement benefit they were participating in prior to layoff. The retirement benefit for members of E.A.S.T. , Local 1553 covered by the non-contributory benefit is determined uBing each of two different formulas: the NonContributory Pension Formula and the Guaranteed Pension Formula. The pension payable as a Single Life Benefit on the employee's social security
--
1. The Employer will extend the Stock Ownership Plan to all eligible employees covered by this Agreement. The Company contributes an amount equal to one-half percent (1/21) of eligible earnings. Company allocation is made in the following year in which you earn the benefit. This benefit will terminate as of the end of the pay period, which includes July 1, 2005. Therefore, the final payment will be in March, 2006.
ARTICLB XI DENTAL PLAH(S)
Section A. Dental Plants)
1. The Dental Plan(a) will be administered by the Employer in accordance with the provisions of the Dental Plan document prepared by the Employer.
2. The Employer agrees, during the term of this Agreement, that the Dental Plan Benefits shall continue to be made available to those eligible employees covered by this Agreement to the same extent and in the same manner as such coverage was made available by the Employer immediately prior to the execution date of this Agreement, except as otherwise provided below.
3. The Employer agrees to offer a HMO-type Dental Plan as an option which may be selected by the eligible employee in lieu of coverage under the Dental Plan. Should the HMOtype Dental Plan fail to meet any applicable Local, State or Federal legal requirements the Employer shall no longer be obligated to offer the Plan.
The HMO-type Dental Plan benefits will be administered by the Plan provider in accordance with the provisions of the Plan selected by the eligible employee.
4. Plan Designs: Effective January l, 200G, the dental plans available will be the same plan design as offered to the salaried population for 2005, as presented in negotiations. This plan design will remain "frozen" for the duration of the contract.
S. Contribution Rates-. Effective January 1, 2006, and for each subsequent year of the contract employee contribution rates towards dental premiums will be the lesser of the negotiated maximums shown below or the contribution rate being paid by the salaried employees for the same plan, as follows:
-44-
Effective January 1, 2006 Employee Bi-Weekly Deduction
Employee fit
Spouse Employee, Child(ren) Employee & Family
Low Option Plan MetLife
$0.00 $0,00
$0.00
SO. 00
High Option Plan MetLife
$3.37
$7.23
$7.43
$12.93
DMO DentalCare
$0.84
$1.67
$2.52
Employee 6
Effective January 1, 3007 Employee Bi-Weekly Deduction
$3.70
--
DMO DentalCare $1.01 $2.02 $2.02 $3.05
NOTE: Dental Plan vendors may change during term of agreement.
Section A Eligibility
ARTICLE XII JURY DUTY
1 A regular full-time employee who has completed the Probationary Period and is required by the court to be absent from work for service on a jury oi examination for Jury Duty shall receive for each regular workday so spent, eight (8) hours pay at the employee's straight time base hourly rate, exclusive of any premium or shift differential.
-45-
2. The employee shall be reimbursed within two (2) weeks after presentation of proper evidence of the dates of such jury service.
3. The Company shall in no case be obligated to continue payments under this provision with respect to jury service (a) more frequently than once in any twelve (12) month period; (b) for jury service exceeding fifteen (15) working days while on call; (c) for jury service performed while on Leave of Absence, Sick Leave or Vacation. The Company will not limit payments to a specific number ox days for grand jury service.
4. An employee on jury duty will be paid his/her pay rate, including shift premium if applicable. Those employees on swing and graveyard shift will not have their shifts changed due to being on jury duty. However, an employee must return to work on any day in which serving less than four (4) hours of jury duty service under the following guidelines:
a. When an employee is on day or swing shift.
b. When an employee is on graveyard shift if serving less than four (4) hours of jury duty service on the day preceding the shift and/or is not expected to report to jury duty within eight (6) hours following the shift.
c. when an employee is scheduled for night court, the graveyard shift guideline (4.b.), regardless of the assigned shift, applies.
Section B, Notification of Employer
1. An employee who receives a jury summons shall notify his or her supervisor not less than ten (10) working days prior to the first day of actual service. Failure to do so shall disqualify the employee for benefits under this Article.
2. With respect to any jury summons received by an employee the Company reserves the right to request exemption from jury service for such employee.
Section C. Effect on Holiday Fay
1. An employee who is otherwise eligible shall not be deprived of Holiday pay because of jury service.
2. Such absence shall not be considered as hours worked.
-46-
ARTICLE XIII PLIGHT PAY AMD FLIGHT INSURANCE
Section A. Flight Pay
1. For time spent in flying in performance of the duties Of adjusting, recording, testing and operating aircraft equipment during test flights, employees shall be compensated, in addition to their regular wage, at the rate of ten dollars ($10.00) per hour.
In flightB of a predetermined hazardous nature at rates determined by the Manager of Plight Test.
2. Flight pay is cumulative during any given workday and is computed in lS-minute units of flight time. Fractional units of flight time will be credited at a full quarter hour.
3. When Flight pay is earned during any workday the total flight time credited will not be less than one hour,
Section 8. Computation of Flight Fay
1. Flight time, for purposes of computing Flight pay, will be construed as lapsed time between release of brakes on the runway at take-off and power shutdown at the hangar apron after landing.
Section C. Flight Insurance
Z. The Employer shall provide a minimum at five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) life and dismemberment insurance coverage for employees who are authorized to travel on Company business in planes specified in the Employer's Aviation Accident Policy, including among others commercial airlines traveling over established routes on regular schedules, Employer-owned or operated aircraft and military aircraft.
2, The Employer shall provide a minimum of one hundred and fifty thousand dollars ($150,000.00) of additional life and dismemberment insurance coverage for employees whose duties during test flights are adjusting, recording, testing, and operating aircraft equipment in Employerowned or operated aircraft and military aircraft.
Section D. Travel Accident and Special Hazards Insurance
1. The Employer shall provide a minimum of two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000.00) insurance coverage for employees who sustain injury while on Company business as a result of a hazard incident provided for under the Company Travel Accident and Special Hazards policy. The Employer agrees to include exposure to on the job hazards occasioned by "emergency response operations."
-47-
ARTICLE XIV ANNUAL MILITARY TRAINING
Section A. Policy
--
3. Employees, other than probationary employees, on temporary layoff will continue to accumulate their seniority.
4. The parties agree that during periods of Temporary Layoffs, as defined in this Seniority Article, no employee involved in such Temporary Layoff will be deprived of his or her Group insurance or Retirement Benefits as prescribed in Articles VIII, IX and XI of this Agreement.
5. It is agreed that when a Temporary Layoff occurs, the Employer will request volunteers from the department. In the event the required number of employees is not obtained on a voluntary basis, then the layoff provisions of Section F.i, shall apply.
Section O. Seniority of Onion Officer*
1. It is agreed that the incumbent Union Officers as of the date of this Agreement, or their duly elected successors, or other employees granted Leaves of Absence to serve as full-time Business Representatives of the Union, are granted preferential seniority in the event of layoff, during their terms of office as provided below.
2. In the event of layoff, the above Union Officials shall have preferential seniority in the grade of their Job Classification provided they have completed three (3) years or more of Bargaining Unit Seniority.
--
ARTICLE XIX UPGRADING AND PROMOTION
Section A. Procedure
1. In connection with upgrading to openings in higher hourlypaid Job Classifications, present active employees with the longest actual service* in Che Job Classifications and Promotional Unit from which the promotion will be made, shall receive first consideration when promotional opportunities arise, regardless of shift, first within euch affected Promotional Unit, and then within other Promotional Units within the same Division provided they possess the qualifications and ability to perform the job, and their production, conduct and attendance records are satisfactory. If such a promotional opportunity is identified by the employer, then the employer shall not post a job opening nor hire until promotional units are reviewed and it is determined that no qualified candidates exist, A Promotional Unit is defined as those employees in a Department.
2. Examples of promotional upgrading from the lower to the higher Job Classification, in the same class of work, are as follows:
FROM
TO
Electromechanical Tech B Plumber Maintenance B Inspector Receiving B
Electromechanical Tech A Plumber Maintenance A Inspector Receiving A
Examples of promotional upgrading from a lower to a higher Job Classification are as follows:
PROW
Helper Maintenance Painter Stencil Sr Wire Worker Electronic
Carpenter Maintenance B Painter Spray "B" Assembler Electronic
3. In the selection of Inspectors for the electronic assembly and semiconductor production departments, those employees in lower or equal labor grades will receive first consideration in accordance with Section A.l.
4. Upon being promoted, an employee shall receive a wage increase, of at least fifty ($.50) cents per hour, provided the new rate does not exceed the maximum rate of the new classification.
* An employee who has completed continuous service ae shown below in the Job Classification from which the promotion will be made, shall be given credit for all bargaining unit seniority.
-56-
To accrue such bargaining unit seniority for promotional consideration, an employee must have length of service in his or her presently-held Job Classification as follows:
Job Classification
in Labor Grade
1-7 8 - 13 14 - 24
Length of Service
30 Calendar Days 0 Calendar Days 90 Calendar Days
ARTICLE XX ABsENCB AKD LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Section A. Definition
1. The term "Leave of Absence" as used in this Agreement, is defined as an approved absence for more than seven (7) consecutive calendar days beginning with the first day the employee is unable to report to work.
Section B. Failure to Report for Work
--
a. To conduct systematic and regular safety inspections of all areas and working conditions.
b. To provide modern and appropriate safety devices and protective equipment to safeguard and protect its employees; and, the use of such safety devices and protective equipment, when furnished, shall be mandatory.
c. When Business Unit Safety Committees are formed by Management it is agreed that a Steward shall be appointed to such Committee. The Coinpany shall solicit recommendations from the Senior Business Representative as to such steward appointees and shall appoint one of those recommended for each committee.
d. To provide physical examinat ions when deemed necessary by the Employer.
e. An employee, or the employee's Department Steward who believes that a job assignment is unsafe, shall report such conditions to the immediate Supervisor who will institute an investigation immediately. Should there be any disagreement regarding the matter, a Safety Engineer shall be called to make a determination and is authorized to suspend work operations which are found to be unsafe.
f. As an adjunct to its safety program, the Employer shall periodically furnish First Aid Training for members of the Safety Committee.
ARTICLE XXII APPRENTICE AGREEMENT
--
Number of Bargaining Unit Employees by Shift (Rounded to the Hearest Multiple of BO) 80
3. However, in no event in the placement of the Stewards shall there be more than one (1) Department Steward, by shift in a Department containing forty (40) or less Bargaining Unit employees.
4. In addition to the Department Stewards ae provided above, the Union may designate up to twelve (12) Senior Stewards to handle grievances as stipulated in the Grievance Procedure. The parties mutually agree that effective October 2001 there shall be no more than five (5) Senior Stewards appointed by the Union and they will be designated to represent employees at the Raytheon El Segundo North and El Segundo South facilities.
5. The number of Senior Stewards will only be increased by using the ratio of one (1) new Senior Steward for every two hundred (200} additional employees assigned to a location other than the Raytheon El Segundo North and El Segundo South facilities.
6. It is the understanding of the parties that except for provided herein, the location and shift placement of additional Senior Stewards shall be in a manner that best
represents the bargaining unit employees.
Section B. Notification of Stewards
1. The Union shall give the Employer advance notification in writing of any appointment of Senior, Department or alternate Stewards, designating the Business Unit, Department, and Shift in which they are certified to function. Such advance notification shall also be given upon removal of any Steward or any changes in the Business Unit, Department and Shift for which a Steward 1B certified. Stewards, or any changes in areas in which they are to function, shall be recognized only upon receipt of an official Letter of Certification from the Union Office, signed by the Recording Secretary. Such written certification shall be addressed to the Labor Relations Representative in the Business Unit where the Steward is employed.
-62-
2. Unless they are certified as Stewards in accordance with Section B.1, above, Union Officers shall not function as Stewards, nor participate in the Grievance Procedure; excepting only Business Representatives who may participate to the extent stipulated in the Grievance Procedure.
3. The Union shall select alternate stewards to temporarily act in place of absentee certified Department and Senior Stewards when such certified Department or Senior Stewards are off the clock and off the premises. Selection of Alternate Stewards shall be made from the active employees in the same general area and shift aa the absentee Steward.
4. Alternate Stewards shall be recognized upon receipt by the Employer of an official Union letter indicating such designation, as provided in Section B.I., above. Seniority of the alternate Stewards shall not be affected by virtue of their temporary appointment.
Section C. Steward Qualifications and Preferential Seniority
1. In the event of layoff an officially-designated Department Steward, who has been certified to the Employer in writing, shall have preferential seniority in the grade of his or her job classification in the Department and on the shift where assigned to work.
2. In the event of layoff an officially-designated Senior Steward, who has been certified to the Employer in writing, shall have preferential Seniority in the grade of his or her job classification in the Business Unit and on the shift where assigned to work.
3. Preferential seniority, as described in Sections C.l. and 2. above, shall be applicable only when the Steward meets the following qualifications at the time layoff occurs:
a. The employee has three (3) or more years of Bargaining Unit Seniority with the Employer; and
b. His or her present Steward certification has been in effect for a period of thirty (30) calendar days or more. This paragraph 3.bK does not apply to those incumbent Stewards whose term of office is extended by re-election or appointment.
Section D* Duties and Function* of Stewards
1. It is agreed that Stewards have full time job duties to perform as employees, and that they shall keep at a minimum the time spent in handling grievances, Department Stewards and/or their alternates shall be compensated by the Employer for time spent in handling grievances during regular scheduled working hours up to a combined maximum of seven (7) total hours per week. Such time shall be accurately recorded by the Steward or his/her alternate as appropriate.
-63-
a. No part of the aforementioned hours, nor any other times during working hours shall be spent soliciting grievances.
Time spent in handling grievances will include the following activities:
a. Participation in steps of the grievance procedure.
b. Investigation of grievances.
In addition to the above activities, a Company account will be established to record the following types of Onion activities:
a. Attendance, if requested by the employee, during disciplinary interviews or the imposition of discipline or discharge.
b. Introductions of new hires/transferees.
c. Meetings called by Management.
d. Attendance in conferences to discuss the installation of new and/or revised job classifications.
e. Attendance as a Company requested witness.
f. Review of layoff displacement patterns.
g. Review of overtime records with Supervision.
h. Review of starting time changes with Supervision. Stewards shall function only under the terms of the Grievance Procedure and in accordance with the following;
a. A Senior Steward shall function only within his or her area for which certified.
b. A Department Steward shall function only on the shift and in the area for which certified as Steward, except as provided in Section B.3.
c. Exceptions to the foregoing may be made by mutual agreement in writing.
Supervisors will introduce new employees and transferees to the Department Stewards within five (S) working days of the employees arrival in the work group.
The Company will not deny a Union Steward access to a restricted area to investigate a grievance where the Steward believes provisions of the Agreement are being violated. Work in restricted areas will be assigned in accordance with Article II, Section F, Access will be in accordance with program security requirements and all safety considerations. The Onion may appoint any Bargaining Unit employee who has program access to act as Steward for the purpose of this Section. Such appointed
-64-
Steward shall investigate and inform the appropriate Senior Steward of the results for determination. Any time required for this activity will not exceed two <2I hours in any month per individual appointed Steward. Access will be granted on an unannounced basis.
Section S. Investigation of Grievances by Stewards
1. Should a Steward be required to leave the job to handle a grievance, he or she shall first secure the permission of his or her immediate Supervisor, informing the Supervisor as to the Departmental area of the grievance,- and ahall report to his or her Supervisor upon returning to work. When a Steward fulfills the conditions of this Section E, permission for him or her to leave his or her job to handle a grievance shall not be unreasonably withheld,
2. In the event it is necessary under the provisions of the Grievance Procedure, and in accordance with the Letter of Certification, for a Steward to handle a grievance in a Department other than his or her own, he or she shall also report to the Foreman or Supervisor of such other Department immediately upon arrival there, and upon departure there from.
--
-75-
ARTICLE XXVI BULLKTIK BOARDS Section A. Use and Location 1. The Employer agrees that adequate bulletin boards for the exclusive use of the Union shall be provided in factory buildings at locations agreed upon for the posting of the following types of Union notices and announcements; Meetings Elections Welfare, recreational and social affaire Appointment of Stewards and such other notices as may be mutually agreed upon between the Union and the Director of Labor Relations. 2. All notices shall be signed by an authorized Officer of the Union and transmitted to the respective Business Unit Labor Relatione Representative for approval. The designated Senior Steward will then post the approved notice(s). 3. The Union will, on a quarterly basis, advise the Company in writing of the currently certified stewards. The Company will poet such notification on the appropriate Union bulletin boards.
ARTICLE XXVII NOTICES
Section A. Written Notices
1, Written notices permitted or required to be served upon any of the parties hereto under the terms of this Agreement, except as otherwise provided under other Articles of this Agreement, shall be sufficiently served for all purposes when mailed in duplicate, postage prepaid, registered or certified mail, addressed as follows:
To the Employer: Raytheon Company P.O. Box 902 Los Angeles, California 90245-0902 Attention; Director, Labor Relations Bldg. EO, El M/S A154
-76-
I
Raytheon Technical Services Company (California Based) 1S65 Hughes Way Location LB Bldg. A01 MS HR Long Beach, CA 90810-0399
Attn: Human Resources Manager
To the Union:
Electronic and Space Technicians Local #1553 13144 Prairie Avenue Hawthorne, California 90250
Attention: Union Recording Secretary cc: Senior Business Representative
ARTICLE XXVIII UNION SECURITY
Section A. Union Membership
1. Any employee covered by this Agreement, who, on the effective date of this Agreement, is a member of the Union shall, thereafter/ as a condition of employment, maintain membership in the Union for the duration of this Agreement, to the extent of paying the periodic dues uniformly required as a condition of retaining membership in the Union. No employee shall be considered in default of the obligation to pay dues until after the Union has given th* employee and the Employer notice in writing and the employee has faiLed to pay hie or her dues within the period of fifteen (15) days following receipt of such written notice. In the event the employee fails to pay his or her dues within the above-mentioned fifteen <15) day period, the Employer shall terminate his or her employment if BO requested by the Union in writing.
2. All present and future employees not members of the Union on the effective date of this Agreement, and who thereafter voluntarily join the Union, shall maintain their membership in the Union thereafter for the duration of the Agreement ae provided in Section A.I., above.
3. The Union shall submit to the Employer, a notarized list showing the name and payroll number of each employee who is a member of the Union on the date this Agreement iB effective, and, on or before the last day of each month, shall submit a further such list of any employees who have become members since the date of submission of the last prior list.
-77-
SOction B* Modified Agency Shop Proviaion
1. During the term of this Agreement, all employees in the Bargaining Unit who were obligated to pay Agency fees to the Union under the preceding Agreement. or who are on or after the effective date of this Agreement hired into, transferred or returned by the Employer to the Bargaining Unit shall, while not a member of the Union, as a condition of employment in the Bargaining Unit, pay Agency fees to the Union on and after the thirty-first {31st) day following their employment and continuing during the term of this Agreement.
2. The amount of such Agency fees shall be equivalent to the amount required to be paid as current dues by those employees who are members of the Union.
3. For purposes of this Section, any employee who, as of the effective date of this Agreement, has seniority rights under this Agreement, shall not be considered a new employee and the provisions of this Section shall not be applicable to the employee,
4. No employee shall be considered in default of the obligation to pay Agency fees until after the Union has given the employee and the Employer1 s Division Labor Relations Representative notice in writing and the employee has failed to pay Agency fees within the period of fifteen (15) days following receipt of such written notice. In the event the employee fails to pay the Agency fees within the above-mentioned period, the Employer shall terminate the employee's employment if so requested by the Union in writing.
Section C. Dues/Pees Deduction
1. It is agreed there is no obligation on the part of the Employer to require employees who are union members to pay fines, assessments, ox financial obligations, other than current dues, to the Union. The Employer, however, agrees to deduct Union dues or Agency fees if required under Sections A. or B. if the request for Union dues or Agency fee deduction LB voluntarily made in writing by the employee to the Einployer's Human Resources Department in such form as may be approved by the Employer. Dues and fees so collected shall be remitted monthly to the Union's Financial Secretary,
2. Any employee who, after the effective date of this Agreement, is laid off and recalled without loss of seniority during the term of this Agreement and who was having dues or Agency fees deducted from his or her pay in accordance with thia Section at the time of layoff, will have said dues or Agency fees deducted from his or her pay upon recal 1; provided that the Employer has in its files, a valid Deduction Authorization form for such employee.
-78-
3. Deductions shall be made from the employee's paycheck in the first week of the Employer1 s accounting month beginning in the month next following the month in which the deduction has been properly authorized, as outlined above,- provided that sufficient earnings remain to cover the Union dues or agency fees after deductions for taxes, old age benefits, insurance premiums, Social Security and other deductions required by law or by the Employer have been made,' and such deductions shall continue in like manner monthly thereafter, except as qualified in this Article. In the event that insufficient earnings remain to cover Union dues or Agency fees, a pickup deduction shall be made from the employee's paycheck from the next available earnings unless the Employer is advised in writing by the Union not to make such deduction.
4, Union dues and Agency fees collected by the Employer shall be remitted monthly to the Union1s Financial Secretary. In the event it is determined an employee is not in the Bargaining Unit or is reclassified to a position outside of the Bargaining Unit, the Employer will automatically discontinue the employee's payroll deductions for Union dues or Agency fees and will notify the Union Office of such action.
B. Cancellation of Union dues or Agency fees deduction authorization by an employee shall be by letter addressed to the employee's Division Labor Relations Representative, with a copy to the Union Office. Such letter must be signed an& dated by the employee and should contain his or her payroll number and department. Such letter shall become effective for the month next following the month in which it is received by the Division Labor Relations Representative. Authorizations for Union dues or Agency fees deductions shall be continued in effect throughout the term of this Agreement unless specifically revoked either in accordance with the provisions of this Article or statutory provisions.
Section t>. Ctenertl
1. The Employer shall not be obligated to take any action under the provisions of Section A. or B. of this Article unless and until the Employer is notified in writing by the Union that an employee, designated by name and payroll number, has failed to comply. The Union agrees to indemnify and hold the Employer harmless from any liability or expense incurred by the Employer because of the payment of dues or fees by an employee or the actual or threatened termination of employment of any employee as a result of such designation by the Union.
2. Any employee who, during the period of the Agreement is a Union member, and is thereafter reclassified to a job outside the Bargaining Unit, and subsequently during the term of this Agreement is returned to a job within the Bargaining Unit, shall be subject to the Union Membership provisions of Section A.
-79-
3. Any dieagreetnent between an employee and the Union, or the Employer concerning this Section may be referred to the Grievance Procedure by either party or by the employee. Any dispute concerning the application of Section C. 3. and 4. shall be referred directly to arbitration.
4. The Company will explain the Union/Agency deduction to all new employees during the new employee orientation process. They will be advised they have until the thirty-first (31st) day of employment to complete the Union or Agency Deduction Authorization Form and give the completed enrollment form to the Division Labor Relations Representative.
ARTICLE XXIX NONKISCRIMIKATIOK Sactton A. Policy 1. The Employer and the Union agree that, in applying the terms of this Agreement, neither party will discriminate against any employee because of race, national origin, sex, age, color, creed, physical handicap, sexual orientation or for any other reason prohibited by law. 2. The Employer and the Union agree that, in applying the terms of this Agreement, neither party will discriminate against any employee for membership or non-membership in the Union.
-80-
ARTICLE XXX SUPPLEMENTAL AO&ffBMENTS
The following Supplemental Agreements are included in the Collective Bargaining Agreement by reference to this Article.
1. Interstate Sleeper-Cab Trucking Operations
.. 82
2. Assembler Job Consolidation
85
3. Domestic Field Allowance and Travel to Temporary
Work Location.,
,.,.,
87
4 . Graveyard Shift Differential
91
5. Leaves of Absence for Union Officers
--
112
21. Retiree Medical Benefits
115
22. Letters or Understanding
116
-81-
Supplemental Agreement HI
May 23, 2005
Electronic and Space Technicians Local #1553 13144 So. Prairie Avenue Hawthorne, CA 90250 Attention: K. G. Dodd, Senior Business Representative Dear Mr. Dodd: This will confirm our understanding regarding the Interstate Sleeper-Cab Trucking Operations. It is mutually agreed by the partieB hereto that the Eollowing provisions will apply to all Interstate Sleeper-Cab runs; 1. Two (2) employees shall be assigned to each run and shall
remain with the truck at all times between terminal points, unless relieved from duty, 2. Employees shall be assigned on the basis of their qualifications and job performance as determined by the Employer. 3. The employees assigned will be classified as Truck DriverCombination, and be paid within, the rate range for that classification as provided in the Classification Appendices of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. 4. Each employee while on a run is required to rest a minimum of eight (8) hours, which may be on an accumulative basis, in each twenty-four (24) hour period, commencing from the time the employee begins Che sleeper-cab run. 5. Work schedules of employees assigned to sleeper-cab runs may vary from day to day while on the run. The work schedule of employees assigned to sleeper-cab runs also may vary when the etrtployees are assigned to the Plant. 6. The payroll week shall be Saturday through Friday,
-82-
Supplemental Agreement #1
K. G. Dodd May 23, 20DS Page 2
7. solely for the purpose of computing pay during runs, each twenty-four (24) hour workday will be divided into three (3) eight (8) hour periods. One (1) at straight time, one (1) at time and one-half, and one (II at no pay. Payment at time and one-half will begin only after eight (B) hours of work at straight time in each such workday.
The cycle of eight (8) hour pay periods or parts thereof shall begin at the time the employees actually commence the sleeper-cab run, shall continue and repeat itself during the entire time of the run, and shall end at the time the employees are relieved from work duties after completion of the run. Fractions of hours will be included in the computation to the nearest tenth (10th) of an hour.
For the work performed on Saturday or Sunday, the sight (8) hour pay periods will be applied on the basis of two (2 J pay periods of time and one-half and one (1) period at no pay.
9. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph seven (7) above, in the event a delay or layover occurs and an employee is relieved from duty he shall be on his own time without pay. However, the employees shall be guaranteed a minimum amount of pay equivalent to eight <S) hours' pay at straight time their base rate during each workday (the successive twenty-four (24) hour periods commencing with reporting time on a run) while away from the Plant on a run.
9. In the event a paid Holiday occurs during a sleeper-cab run, employees shall receive eight (B) hours' Holiday pay at straight time under the conditions of the "Holiday" Article of the Agreement, in addition to compensation for the run.
-83-
Supplemental Agreentent #1
K. G. Dodd May 23, 2 005 Page 3
10. Each employee shall receive thirty-six dollars ($36.00) per day for meals during actual time away from the Plant on a sleeper-cab run. For this purpose, the day will be divided into four (4) six (6) hour periods beginning at midnight, with payment at the rate of nine dollars ($9.00> per period. Any part of a period shall constitute a whole period for the purpose of payment for meals. Each employee shall also be reimbursed for reasonable lodging expense incurred during a layover. The lodging expense must be accompanied by a receipt. When the cost of meals is claimed for reimbursement as a business conference expense or is otherwise paid by the Company, the standard per diem amount will be decremented using the following factors: 50* dinner; 30% lunch; and 20% for breakfast, Reimbursement for meals and lodging shall be requested at the end of each week during which a sleeper-cab run occurs.
11. The provisions of the Article in the Agreement entitled "Hours of Work and Overtime" shall not be applicable to sleeper-cab runs, except chat there shall be no pyramiding or duplication of overtime and premium pay.
12. The commencement, frequency, scheduling and discontinuance of sleeper-cab runs shall be a matter solely within the discretion of the Employer.
-84-
Supplemental Agreement ft2
Electronic and Space Technicians Local #1553 13144 Prairie Avenue Hawthorne, CA 90250
Attention: K. G. Dodd, senior Business Representative Dear Mr. Dodd:
--
-94-
--
-100*
Supplemental Agreement #12 May 23, 2005 Electronic and Space Technicians Local ((1553 13144 So. Prairie Avenue Hawthorne, CA 90250 Attention: K. G. Dodd, Senior Business Representative Dear Mr. Dodd: This is to confirm the dlscusBion during our recent negotiations that disputes arising out of the provisions ot Article VIII - Group Insurance, Article IX - Retirement, Article X - Employee Savings Plan and Article XI - Dental Plan(s), will be resolved within Che framework provided for dispute resolution as outlined in the respective plan documents.
-101-
Supplemental Agreement ft!3
Electronic and Space Technicians Local #1553 13144 So. Prairie Avenue Hawthorne, CA 90250
Attention: K. G. Dodd, Senior Business Representative
Dear Mr. Dodd:
This letter will confirm the parties' understanding concerning a drug-free workplace policy.
The Department of Defense haB issued emergency regulations mandating a drug-free workplace including the requirement that the Company certify that its operations are drug-tree. Accordingly, effective April 1, 1989, a drug-free workplace policy was implemented including testing based on reasonable suspicion applicable to all company employees. In addition, the Department of Transportation requires employers to conduct drug and alcohol testing on covered employees in accordance with the Department of Transportation regulations. Employees are also subject to testing when recalled to work from layoff provided such employees have been on layoff for a minimum period of twelve (12) months. Further, employees on the recall list, who are offered a non-bargaining unit position, are subject to preemployment testing. If an employee tests positive either at the time of recall or rehire, he or she will not be eligible for recall for a twelve 112) month period after which time the employee will be recalled and retested when the first available opening occurs. Testing will be conducted in accordance with the elements outlined in Company Practice 3-0-17. Failure on the part of an employee to cooperate in the program can involve discipline up to termination of employment. Failure of the Company to follow the direction of the government (our customer) can result in the loss of contracts, suspension of progress payments and other penalties.
The Company and the Union are committed to providing a safe workplace and to promoting employee health. Consistent with this commitment, a drug-free workplace policy with a view to maintaining a work environment that is free of the harmful effects of drug use or alcohol abuse will be implemented.
-102-
Supplemental Agreement #13
K, G, Dodd May 23, 2005 Page 2
Employees who use illegal drugs or who abuse legal drugB or alcohol, create aerious safety and health risks for all employees* and tend to be less productive, prone to greater abeenteeistn, accidents, health insurance costs and quality control problems and present security risks. This Supplemental Agreement embodies the parties' intention to cooperate in combating alcohol and drug abuse ("substance abuse") among employees.
The Company currently offers a non-punitive Employee Counseling Program which offers assistance to employees with substance abuse problems. If possible, both the Company and Union representatives will encourage participation to those needing assistance in order to strive for a drug-free workplace and to assist those dealing with addiction. However, the Program cannot protect those employees who have refused assistance or failed to cooperate in the Program or whose work or disciplinary record does not support a referral to the Program.
Where appropriate, the parties agree to emphasize rehabilitation, not punishment, ae the first course in dealing with employees who have drug problems. Although the Company retains the right to discipline or discharge an employee for his/her first violation of the Company's Drug Free Workplace Program, discharge would normally not be in order unless the employee was already at a later stage of the disciplinary procedure or the initial incident relative to the disclosure of the drug problem was related to a dischargeable offense or the employee had previously participated in a rehabilitation program. Also, if the employee rejects an offer of rehabilitation, or if federal/state regulations preclude the retention of the employee in a covered position, the Company would be under no obligation to retain such employee.
If a Union member is to be questioned about substance abuse, the member, upon request, will have the assistance of a Onion representative.
The program will be in compliance with applicable Federal and State laws and regulations.
-103-
Supplemental Agreement #14
Attention-. K. G. Dodd, senior Business Representative
Dear Mr, Dodd:
Thia will confirm our mutual understanding with regards to Paid Time Off (PT0>.
Employees hired after October 18, 1999 will participate in accordance with the contents referenced in the Raytheon Paid Time Off (PTO) , Company Policy No. 000000112 RP, effective 01/01/05.
1. PTO days are advanced each January 1 for use during that calendar year.
2. Use of PTO days are for vacation, minor illnesses, health care appointments, caring for sick children, children1s school obligations, personal obligations.
3. Bereavement, jury duty and military reserve duty paid not charged to PTO.
4. If employee is approved for short term disability benefits, employee may buy back PTO days used during the approval waiting period. Approved STD is paid according to the plan document.
Schedule for PTO Eliqi bility YearB of Service Less than 1 1-4 5-9 10-14 15+ '
PTO Days 12.5 IS 20 22 25
Maximum PTO Days 12.5* 20 25 27 30
--
This Supplemental Agreement will confirm our mutual understanding with respect to the posting of Bargaining Unit positions covered by this agreement.
This is a method by which hourly Bargaining Unit employees may apply for promotion, transfer or downgrade opportunities and receive consideration for vacancies along with other qualified applicants.
This Program, if it conflicts with the Collective Bargaining Agreement, shall be superseded by said Agreement.
1. Eligible hourly job openings will be made available to all Bargaining unit employees through appropriate means as determined by the cognizant Human Resources organization for a minimum of five (5) working days. The parties agree exceptions to the 5-day positing will be discussed with the Union.
2. An employee may file for an announced job opening subject to the following requirements:
a. The employee must have completed twelve (12) months in hie or her current job classification or after notice of layoff. Employees who are part of a job consolidation or have been involuntarily downgraded, are exempt from this requirement.
b. The employee must have a satisfactory attendance, conduct and work performance record and must possess the qualifications and ability necessary to perform the duties of the applied job opening.
c. Applicants will be considered for the position based upon, but not limited to, their length of Company service, relative training, experience, performance and conduct. When selecting applicants for interview, an individual possessing special skills, training, experience or education related to the job opening may receive special consideration.
-110-
Supplemental Agreement #19
K. G. Dodd May 23, 2005 Page 2
d. An employee may submit a maximum of six (6) applications in a calendar year, except for Company-initiated transfer resulting from operational requirements or extenuating circumstances.
e. An employee accepting a job offer is not eligible for further consideration under this program until the conditions of paragraph 2(a) are satisfied.
f. Submitting an application does not jeopardize an employee's current status,
g. An employee desiring to interview on Company time shall first obtain permission and if granted, arrange the interview schedule in advance with his/her current supervisor.
3. Applications may be submitted by laid off employees for a period of sixty (SO) calendar days following the effective day of layoff or last day worked, whichever comes first. Thereafter, laid off employees may submit regular employment applications for positions listed.
4. All terms of this supplemental agreement shall apply except that employees on layoff are exempt from 2(d).
5. Employees on layoff are responsible for obtaining job information and properly submitting applications.
6. interviewing supervision shall provide the applicant information as to his/her status after an interview.
-Ill-
Supplemental Agreement #20
Electronic and Space Technicians Local #1553 133.44 So. Prairie Avenue Hawthorne, CA 902S0
This letter shall confirm our mutual understanding on the issue of the separation of work in the California Engineering development laboratories defined as "Engineering" work and that work which shall be performed hy E.A.S.T. bargaining unit classifications. It is the intent of the Parties, the Company, and the Union to make a collaborative effort to define the duties of the bargaining vs. nan-bargaining work and to assign that work appropriately. That effort will require an attitude and atmosphere of trust, communication, and cooperation between the Parties in order to minimize future disagreements as to the appropriate assignment of work.
In an attempt to define the distinctions between the Bargaining vs. Hon-bargaining technical support, the Parties agree that the following guidelines shall be established to assist in that effort and ultimately in the appropriate assignment of work. The following examples can be defined (but not limited to) engineering work:
a. Design, design validation and design of experiment b. Design of prime hardware and test procedures c. Analysis of designs d. Breadboard and breadboard validation e. Generation of test procedures, plans and schematics f. Test design and validation g. Software development h. First article robust design and product functionality i. computer-Aided Design (CAD) j. Specialized or experimental component and materials
analysis, reliability and qualification testing k. Troubleshooting of hardware where problems are beyond
capability of non-engineering support 1. Initial engineering assessment of non-standard field and
factory returns m. Primary customer / supplier interface n. Use of hands and automated tools / equipment to prove
original designs
-M2-
K. G. DOdd May 23, 2005 Page 2
Within a structure that is more established, defined and detailed, bargaining unit personnel are expected to assist in all of the above with the direction and guidance of the engineer. In addition to assisting in the above, the primary responsibilities of the bargaining unit include:
A. Testing where guidelines and standards have been established
B. First order troubleshooting
C. Fabrication and assembly of mechanical, optical and electrical designs
Methodology:
1) As a basic criteria tor distinguishing bargaining unit from non-bargaining unit work, the Company will identify salaried support engineers that appear to be spending the preponderance of their time doing A, B, or C above, within that defined structure
2) Management will distribute these guidelines and train supervision on the above criteria and identify work and personnel that meet those criteria
3) If the work is determined to be bargaining unit work, it will be appropriately assigned
4) The parties agree that non-exempt technical support personnel will not perform bargaining unit work as described in this Memorandum of Understanding,
5} All non-exempt technical support personnel as set forth in the attached appendix will be assigned to be a Bargaining Unit Job Classification. The necessary administrative casks to convert the employees currently classified, as Engineering Support Specialists to bargaining unit status will be completed no later than December 31, 2001.
6} The Company and the Union agree, where appropriate, to populate existing Product Development Technician classifications to accommodate personnel transferred to the bargaining unit as a result of this agreement. However, where such a fit does not exist, new classification(s) will need to be generated.
7) All employees converted to Bargaining Unit classifications will be credited with Bargaining unit Seniority equal to their individual benefit dates. The benefit date seniority will be used only in the classification entered as a result of this action. An employee who may later transfer to another job classification will be credited with seniority in accordance with the date they were transferred to the Bargaining Unit, pursuant to this agreement.
-113-
Supplemental Agreement #20 K. G. Dodd May 23, 2005 Page 3 8J It ia further agreed that those employees grandfathered
under this agreement will continue to receive general wage increases per the Collective Bargaining Agreement. 9) Employees who are later converted to the Bargaining Unit within 1 year of this agreement will be credited with seniority, according to this Memorandum of Understanding. Footnote: The parties agree that developmental work will be assigned to employees in the appropriate job classification.
-114-
Supplemental Agreement #21
Electronic and Space Technicians Local ttl553 13144 So. Prairie Avenue Hawthorne, CA 90250
This Supplemental Agreement will confirm our mutual understanding with respect to Retiree Medical Benefits.
The Company shall continue to provide the below amounts towards the cost of Retiree Medical coverage for eligible retirees, their spouses, and their dependents:
Retiree or Spouse or Child(ren)
$234.OS
Retiree & Spouse
$509.10
Retiree ox Spouse &
Child(ren)
$463.61
Retiree & Family
$653,44
Health Net HMO
Health Net POS
$178.30 $256.43
$400,72 S571.23
$345.94 $501.61
$543.43 $7B2.51
-115-
Supplemental Agreement #22 May 23, 2005 Electronic and Space Technicians Local H15S3 13144 So. Prairie Avenue Hawthorne, CA 90250 Attention: K. 6. Dodd, Senior Business Representative Dear Mr. Dodd: This letter shall confirm the existence of four (4) Letters of understanding agreed to by the parties during negotiations, The parties reached agreements as documented by the fallowing Letters of Understanding: 2. Job Classification Appendices 2. Seniority for Occupational illness or Injury 3. Bi-weekly Payroll and Vacation Advances 4. Stock Clerk Upgrade
-116-
CLASSIFICATION APPENDIX
APPLICATION OF JOB CLASSIFICATIONS
The following governs the interpretation of all job descriptions:
1. Job descriptions are not intended to list or describe all work operations or tasks performed within a classification. The job description lists typical and normal requirements. These requirements may not fit all specific individual work assignments, but they illustrate characteristics of the job and define the level of difficulty of work. Job descriptions are typically broader than any employees normal work assignment, however, employees may be assigned to work within the full scope of their job classification description provided they are given appropriate orientation/training.
2. An employee's job dutieB may include parts of other classifications, either lower or lateral which are related to the work process and necessary to get the job done. This Section is not to be used to circumvent the integrity of the Bargaining Unit classifications. It is not the intent of the Company to use this Section to replace jobs on a full time basis with other classifications.
3. The following are incorporated in each job classification description:
a. Housekeeping and cleaning tasks in the work area as necessary for safety and cleanliness.
b. Employees may assist fellow employees on a voluntary basis.
c. Involvement in continuous measurable improvement activities such as, collection of data, development and display of metrics and process improvements associated with the employees normal job duties.
4. Training for the purpose of obtaining certification in a higher labor grade shall not be the only basis for upgrade to the higher classification.
5.The definition of integrity as used in this Classification Appendix includes the job duties as stated in each job description mutually agreed to in the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
-117-
JOB CODE
JOB TITLE
LABOR GRADE
40203 40204 40333 40334 40213 40215 40216 41153 41163 41363 41343 41253 41303 41304 41373 41383 41393 41473 41474 41475 41523 41524 41535 41534 41533 41536 41573 41576 41553 41554 41555 41653 41663 41713 41483 41484 42116 42123 42124 42213 42253 42254
AIR CONDITIONING & REFRIGERATION MECHANIC A 23
AIR CONDITIONING & REFRIGERATION MECHANIC B 13
AIRCRAFT GROUND SUPPORT EQUIPMENT MECH A
24
AIRCRAFT GROUND SUPPORT EQUIPMENT MECH B
14
AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE MECHANIC
AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE MECH HELPER
09
AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE MECHANIC SR
ASSEMBLER BRA2rNG
06
ASSEMBLER ELECTROMECHANICAL
02
ASSEMBLER ELECTROHIC
ASSEMBLER ELECTRONIC ASSEMBLY
11
ASSEMBLER ELECTRONIC DEVELOPMENTAL
ASSEMBLER ELECTRONIC EXPERIMENTAL LAB A
ASSEMBLER ELECTRONIC EXPERIMENTAL LAB B
--
ASSEMBLER SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICES EXPERIMENTAL 09
ASSEMBLER SUPPORT MECH
ASSEMBLER SYSTEMS ELECTROMECHANICAL A
ASSEMBLER SYSTEMS ELECTROMECHANICAL B
AUTOMATED EQUIPMENT TECHNICIAN
AUTOMATIC REFLOW SOLDER MACHINE OPERATOR A 11
AUTOMATIC REPLOW SOLDER MACHINE OPERATOR B 06
AUTOMATIC WIRE LAYING MACHINE MECHANIC
AUTOMOTIVE MECHANIC A
20
AUTOMOTIVE MECHANIC B
-118-
71503 BLUEPRINT CONTROL CLERK A
08
71504 BLUEPRINT CONTROL CLERK B
04
Binary file (standard input) matches
