=== HEALTHCARE EXTRACTION: CBA_20 ===
Source: C:/Users/zachary.parolin/INETInequality Dropbox/INET Inequality Team/Projects/LLMs & Inequality/1_CBAs/Cornell Archive/Cornell-RetailEducation/6178_008b178f008_02.pdf
Total document lines: 1002
Extracted healthcare lines: 141
===========================================

XIV

- Health and Hospitalization Insurance ............... 13
XV
- Group Life Insurance ............................... 15
XVI
- Retirement and Pension Plan ........................ 16
XVII XVIII XIX
- Holidays ........................................... 17
- Vacation ...........................................
20
- Sick Leave .......................................... 24
XX
- Leave of Absence ................................... 25
XXI
- Bereavement f a y .... ...............................
27
XXII
- Jury Duty ..........................................
XXIII
- Severance Pay ...................................... 28
XXIV
- Discipline, Suspension,Discharge ................... 28
XXV
--
V\
Neither the Association nor any employee may grieve or arbitrate with respect to the content or description of any job. Arbitrators may not rely on, utilize or consider this provision for any purpose in cases arising under other provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XIV - HEALTH AND HOSPITALIZATION INSURANCE 1. The University shall continue to provide its basic Blue Cross
coverage, Equitable Basic Physician and Equitable Major Medical, or substantially equivalent coverage, on an individual basis and for employee and child, to full-time permanent employees, at no cost to the employee for the duration of this agreement.
2. Coverage for the spouse and children of a full-time permanent employee is permitted on a shared cost basis. Effective with deductions made after December 1, 1981, the University will reduce the contribution for employee and family from $7.00 per month to $5.00 per month.
3. Employees who came to the University covered by a different plan for employee and family, and were permitted to keep it, will continue to contribute $16.60 per month.
4. The Blue Cross family plan will provide extended eligibility for coverage to unmarried children between the age of 19 to 23 who are full-time students. Coverage for sponsored children will also be extended to thos who are unmarried, full-time students, between the age of 19 to 23.
5. Part-time permanent employees may enroll in Blue Cross and Equitable Basic Physician, or the substantially equivalent coverage
-13-
--
offered by the University, at their own expense. 6. The date of coverage and the extent of coverage are determined
in accordance with the existing rules, and the terms of the insurance policy. 7. Full-time permanent employees who are eligible may enroll in
Health Maintenance Organization (HMO) plans in which the University participates. Participation in these plans is at the option of the employee and is in lieu of participation in the University's other health and hospitalization insurance plans. The University will contribute the same dollar amount towards the cost of the type of coverage selected (individual, husband and wife, individual with child, and family) as it does for that type of coverage under the University's other health and hospitalization insurance plans available to full-time permanent unit employees. The difference, if any, between the dollar amount contributed by the University and the cost of the type of coverage selected shall be paid by the employee.
8. Part-time permanent employees who are eligible may enroll in HMO plans in which the University participates. Such participation will be at the employee's own expense.
9. The Equitable Major Medical insurance provided will have the following provisions:
(1) A deductible of $100 per person, per calendar year with a maximum of three deductibles per family, per calendar year;
(2) The lifetime maximum payment shall be $250,000 per person.
-14-
10. The Equitable Basic Physician plan will provide 100% reimbursement up to the Reasonable and Customary charge for surgical services. All other types of services shall continue to be reimbursed according to the schedule of allowances provided in the plan.
11. Annual Medical Examinations are available upon request to full-time permanent employees. Arrangements are made through Health Service. The fee for the examination is $30. Effective November 30, 1981, the fee is reduced to $25.
ARTICLE XV - GROUP LIFE INSURANCE
The Employer shall continue to grant $3,000.00 of the Employer's
group life insurance coverage at the Employer's expense to all full-time
employees covered by this Agreement, upon completion of the three (3)
months probationary period of employment. Full-time employees covered
by this Agreement may participate in additional group life insurance
coverage, based upon their entitlement to such coverage and the required
employee contribution set forth in the following schedule:
Gross Base Weekly Pay
Insured Amount (including $3,000 free)
Cost to Employee
$178.00 but less than $190.39
$10,000
$2.40 per month
$190.39 but less than $232.69
$15,000
$3.60 per month
$232.69 and over
$20,000
$4.80 per month
-15-
ARTICLE XVI - RETIREMENT AND PENSION PLAN 1. The Employer will maintain the New York University Staff Pension
Plan for eligible bargaining unit employees for the duration of this Agreement. 2. Bargaining unit employees are eligible for participation once
they have reached the age of twenty-five (25), have been employed by the University for twelve (12) months, and have worked 1,000 hours in a twelve (12) consecutive month period. Employees hired on or after age sixty (60) are not eligible to participate in the Staff Pension Plan.
3. The amount of pension an employee is entitled to is based on the following formula: average monthly salary over the last five (5) years prior to termination date X .008 X credited years of service (35 years is maximum and service credits accrued beyond the employee's sixty-fifth birthday are not counted toward the retirement benefit).
4. The normal retirement date is the first day of the month after the month in which the employee's, sixty-fifth (65th) birthday occurs, or the employee's birthday if the employee's sixty-fifth birthday is the first of the month.
5. The mandatory retirement date is the first day of the calendar month which coincides with or follows the employee's seventieth (70th) bi rthday.
6. Effective November 1, 1981, the pension plan is amended to count as credited years of service, years of service prior to the month in which the employee attained his/her 22nd birthday.
7. All questions concerning coverage, vesting, entitlement to
-16-
--
3. Military - Leaves of absence for the performance of military encampment duty with the United States Armed Forces or with a Reserve component thereof shall be granted up to a maximum of two weeks. The employee must present a copy of his/her orders to the supervisor.
4. Contractual Benefits During Leave a) University continues its contributions for health and
life insurance coverage during the period of leave. The employee must continue to pay his/her share of such premiums, if applicable.
b) Credit for vacation or sick leave is not accumulated during an unpaid leave of absence of more than fifteen days.
c) No pay is given for holidays which occur during the leave of absence period. If a holiday falls on the first working day after the scheduled expiration date of the employee's leave, the employee is not paid for that holiday.
5. General Provisions a) An employee may be required to take a medical examination
prior to return to work from any Illness Leave of Absence. b) Failure to return to work upon scheduled expiration of
approved leave constitutes grounds for termination. Any employee desiring to return to the University after a leave of absence has expired will be treated as a new applicant. All prior seniority will be lost.
c) Acceptance of other employment while on leave constitutes grounds for termination.
-26-
ARTICLE XXI
BEREAVEMENT PAY
Permanent full-time and part-time employees shall not be required
to work but shall be paid their regular straight-time pay for their next
three (3) working days immediately following the death of their parent,
parent-in-law, legal guardian, brother, sister, spouse, child, or
grandparent. (Any of these days may be postponed for up to one week
from the date of the death, if necessary to permit attendance at the
funeral.) They may be excused from work for a maximum of one (1) day
with straight-time pay to attend the funeral of a close relative other
than those listed above. The Employer may require proof of death.
ARTICLE XXII - JURY DUTY Permanent full-time and part-time employees who have completed the
three (3) months probationary period will be paid the difference between their per diem compensation for jury service and their regular straight-time pay for each day of their workweek that they are required to qualify, report or serve on a jury. They must report for work on any full or partial days on which they are released from jury duty. Employees are expected to report for work if they could return in time to perform at least three (3) hours of work within their normal work schedule. The employees shall be guaranteed their normal length lunch period.
The receipt of a subpoena or the notice to report for jury duty must be reported immediately to the supervisor and the Employer may request that the employee be excused or exempted from such jury duty if, in the opinion of the Employer, the employee's services are essential at the time of proposed jury service.
-27-
--
discharge or suspension. In such event, the dispute shall be submitted and determined under the grievance and arbitration procedure set forth in this Agreement, commencing at Step 3 of the grievance machinery. If no complaint is filed within the time specified, the discharge or suspension shall be final.
Any grievance concerning disciplinary action other than suspensi or discharge shall be initiated at Step 1 of Article XXVI, Grievance and Arbitration Procedure.
ARTICLE XXV - PERSONNEL FILES Employees will be given an opportunity to read any written warning
or letter notifying them of disciplinary action which is placed in their personnel file, and shall receive a copy at the same time. They must acknowledge that they have read the document by signing it. This provision is not applicable to documents placed in the personnel files prior to the date this Agreement is signed, and does not permit inspection of personnel files. It is not applicable to memorandums of oral warnings.
An employee will be permitted to submit a written rebuttal to any written warning letter or notice of disciplinary action and have it placed in his/her personnel files.
ARTICLE XXVI - GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE Section 1 . A grievance within the meaning of this Agreement shall
be any dispute concerning the interpretation, application or claimed
violation of a specific term or provision of this Agreement. Disputes which do not involve the interpretation, application or claimed violation of a specific term or provision of this Agreement shall not be considered grievable. This is the sole procedure for the resolution of grievances under this contract.
Section 2 . An aggrieved employee or the Association shall present a grievance within fifteen (15) days of its occurrence or such grievance shall be deemed waived by the employee and the Association.
Section 3 . The steps set forth below will be followed in the processing of grievances:
Step 1 . The employee shall discuss the grievance with his/her immediate supervisor. The employee may request the presence of a Shop Steward and the supervisor may request a representative from Personnel Services to observe and/or discuss the grievance. The immediate supervisor shall respond to the grievance within ten (10) days of the discussion with the grievant and/or the Steward. If the grievance is not resolved to the employee's satisfaction, the Association may, within ten (10) days of denial at Step 1, appeal the grievance to Step 2.
Step 2 . Grievances appealed to Step 2 shall be reduced to writing and sent to the appropriate administrative official (Dean, Vice President, or head of an autonomous administrative unit) with a copy to the Director of Personnel Services. The written grievance must set forth the basis therefor with reasonable particularity, including a designation of the article of the Agreement relied upon
-30-
and the remedy requested. The Shop Steward and employee will meet within ten (10) days of the notice of appeal with the administrative official referred to above or that person's designee and discuss the grievance. The administrative official or designee shall respond to the grievance in writing within ten (10) days from the discussion of such grievance with the Shop Steward. If the grievance is not adjusted to the Association's satisfaction, it may appeal the matter to Step 3.
Step 3 . A grievance not settled in Step 2 may be appealed in writing to the Director of Personnel Services within ten (10) days of the Step 2 denial. The Association representative and the Director of Personnel Services or that person's designee shall, within ten (10) days, meet to discuss the grievance. The Employer will render a decision in writing to the Association within ten (10) days of the Step 3 meeting.
Anything to the contrary herein notwithstanding, without waiving its statutory or other rights, the Employer may present a grievance initially at Step 3 by notice in writing addressed to the Association at its offices. The Association must meet with the Employer's representative within five (5) daysand render its decision in writing within ten (10) days of the Step 3 meeting.
Anything to the contrary herein notwithstanding, a grievance concerning discharge or suspension may be presented initially at Step 3 within eight (8) working days of the time the employee is notified of the discharge or suspension.
All time limits herein specified shall be deemed to be exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and holidays. The time limits herein may be
-31-
extended by mutual agreement. Any disposition of a grievance from which no appeal is taken
within the time limits specified herein shall be deemed resolved and shall not thereafter be considered subject to the grievance and arbitration provisions of this Agreement.
Failure on the part of the Employer to answer a grievance at any step shall not be deemed acquiescence thereto, and the Association may proceed to the next step.
Section 4 . If either party is not satisfied with the Step 3 response, the grievance may be taken to arbitration within fifteen (15) days of the receipt of the Step 3 response.
The parties shall request arbitration by giving notice to that effect to the American Arbitration Association with a copy to the other party. The selection of the arbitrator shall be from panels submitted in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association.
The arbitrator shall have jurisdiction only over disputes arising out of grievances, as defined in Section 1 above, and shall not have the authority to add to, subtract from, modify or amend in any way the provisions of this Agreement.
The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding upon the Association, the Employer and the employees. The fees and expenses of the American Arbitration Association and the arbitrator shall be borne equally by the parties.
-32-
tn
ARTICLE XXVII - NO STRIKE, NO LOCKOUT 1. The Association agrees that it will not nor will it permit any
member of the bargaining unit to call, instigate, engage or participate in or encourage or sanction any strike, sympathy strike, sit-down, slow-down, stoppage of work, picketing, boycott, refusal to cross the picket line of another union, or otherwise curtail the work or restrict or interfere with the conduct of the Employer. The Employer agrees that it shall not lock out any of the employees covered by the Agreement.
2. In the event that any of the employees violate the provisions of the foregoing paragraph hereof, the Association shall immediately use every means at its disposal to get its members who participate or engage in any such action to return to work including the distribution to the employees and the Employer, within twelve (12) hours of notice of a violation of this article by the Employer to any Association officer or to the Association offices at 260 Park Avenue, New York, N.Y., of a written notice, signed by an officer of the Association, that the work stoppage or other violation is not authorized by the Association and is to be terminated immediately. Any employee engaging in any conduct prohibited by the first section of this article will be subject to disciplinary action, including discharge, at the discretion of the Employer.
An employee who is disciplined for a violation of this Article shall have no recourse to the grievance procedure or arbitration provisions of this Agreement except to grieve or arbitrate the contention that he/she has not violated this Article.
-33-
ARTICLE XXVIII - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS The operation and management of the University and the supervision
and direction of the employees are and shall continue to be solely and exclusively the functions and prerogatives of the University. All of the rights, functions and prerogatives of management which are not expressly and specifically restricted or modified by one or more explicit provisions of this Agreement are reserved and retained exclusively by the University and shall not be deemed or construed to have been modified, diminished or impaired by any past practice or course of conduct or otherwise than by express provision of this Agreement. Without in any manner limiting or affecting the generality of the foregoing, the right and power to select and hire all employees, to suspend, discipline, demote or discharge them for cause, to promote them to supervisory or other positions, to assign, transfer, supervise and direct all working forces, to maintain discipline and efficiency among them, to determine the facilities, methods, means, equipment, procedures and personnel required to conduct activities, to promulgate rules and regulations and to exercise the other customary functions of the University for the carrying on of its business and operations, are recognized as vested exclusively in the University.
ARTICLE XXIX - ENTIRE AGREEMENT The Employer and the Association agree that all matters desired by
either party have been presented, discussed and incorporated herein or
-34-
Binary file (standard input) matches
