=== HEALTHCARE EXTRACTION: CBA_07 ===
Source: C:/Users/zachary.parolin/INETInequality Dropbox/INET Inequality Team/Projects/LLMs & Inequality/1_CBAs/Cornell Archive/Cornell-DoL/6513ABBYY.pdf
Total document lines: 2260
Extracted healthcare lines: 400
===========================================


An executive is defined as an employee having the duty and responsibility of directing the operation of a store, or a selling or non-selling department, or sub-division thereof, and who customarily and regularly exercises discretionary power and except for executives employed in an administrative capacity, must customarily and regularly direct the work of other employees and have the authority to hire and fire other employees, or be an employee whose suggestions and recommendations as to hiring and firing, and as to advancement or promotion, or any other changes of status of the employee, will be given particular weight. See also Section 26.
It is understood that the Support Team Leader position in Stonestown is covered under Section 2. The total number of Selling Managers in Stonestown shall be limited to three (3) per season.
SECTION 3 - UNION MEMBERSHIP
Site Visits
A. There shall be no discrimination by the Employer against any employee or applicant on account of membership in or activity on behalf of the Union.
B. Those employees who are members of the Union, or who become members, must continue their membership in good standing for the life of the present Agreement as a condition of employment. All employees hired on and after February 1, 1968, shall within thirty-one (31) days following their employment become members and maintain membership in the Union.
C. "Good standing," for the purpose of this Agreement, shall mean that the employee shall tender, in accordance with applicable law, the periodic dues and the initiation fees uniformly required as a condition of acquiring or retaining membership in the Union.
The Union will send to the company, by noon each Monday, a list of employees who they want terminated for non-payment of dues. Once this list is submitted, the names shall be non-revocable by the Union, and the Employer will terminate effective Tuesday. However, in the event that an employee complies after the notice to the Employer but prior to the termination, it is the employee's responsibility to provide this written verification from the Union to the Human Resources Representative prior to the termination. In such circumstances Employer will not terminate said employee. Employees terminated under this provision will have no right of re-instatement and such termination shall not be subject to the grievance procedure.
The Union agrees to indemnify and hold the Employer harmless in any and all claims arid/ or causes of
http://macys.locall01.com/contract.htm
1/31/2005
Contract
action, which arise out of or are in any way connected with the Employer's compliance with this provision.
Page 3 of 94
D. As of January 1, 2000 or before, the Employer agrees to provide the Union monthly, by the 10th of the following month, a list of all employees working under this Collective Bargaining Agreement. This list will contain the employee's name, social security number, payroll I.D., full address, date of hire, area and area suffix, base hourly rate, phone number and full-time/part-time designation. If such information is in a code form, the Employer will provide a key to understanding the code. The Employer is only responsible to provide the personal employee information contained on its payroll system and is not responsible for the accuracy of the information. Seasonally, upon written request of the Union, the company will furnish the union a list of all vendor specialists and selling supervisors. Once a year, upon written request of the Union, the company will furnish the union with a list of all bargaining unit employees, Social Security number and last year's gross earnings. This once a year list may only be requested after the information is compiled for federal income tax purposes.
The Union agrees to defend, indemnify and hold the Employer harmless from any claim, loss, damage or judgment of any court of competent jurisdiction, or any agency of government, in connection with or arising from any loss, misuse or theft of Social Security numbers provided to the union pursuant to this section.
E. The provisions of sub-section B shall apply to Christmas and Summer Season store associates, but their obligation after thirty-one (31) days of employment shall be expressly limited to the payment of and amount of money equal to the Union's regular and usual dues, plus a minimal administration fee. Summer Season and Christmas Employees shall have no obligation to pay an amount of money equal to the regular and usual fees; including initiation fees, unless they are retained on the Employer's regular roll at the end of their seasonal employment. The company will provide, on Monday, a weekly list of seasonals hired the previous week.
F. No employee in the bargaining unit shall be allowed to enter into any individual contract or agreement with the employer.
G. It is the intention of the Employer and the Union to continue a harmonious relationship, and, recognizing that the Union has the responsibility to represent all employees covered by the collective bargaining agreement between the Employer and the Union, the parties agree to enter into a joint program to discuss Union membership with individual employees.
SECTION 4 - UNION-EMPLOYER RELATIONS
A. In the interest of promoting a harmonious relationship mutually beneficial to the Employer and the
--
E. The Employer shall post the next month's weekly preliminary schedules, by department, by Sunday noon, four (4) weeks prior to the start of the scheduled week. Changes to an employee's base schedule must be shown on the preliminary schedule. The employer will assign these changes by department on such schedules, by seniority and availability for day or night work. Individuals may initially decline additional days or hours consistent with "F" below
F. If there are additional hours or days unassigned under "E" above, each employee within the department will have the opportunity, by seniority, within the next five (5) days from the date of the preliminary schedule posting, to select any unassigned full shifts or days, provided the selection does not exceed eight (8) hours in one (1) day or forty (40) hours in one (1) week. If hours or days become available after the fifth (5th) day from the posting of a preliminary schedule and before a final schedule, the hours or days shall be offered by seniority then assigned by inverse seniority provided the additional hours or days does not result in overtime without the prior permission of the Employer. Employees may substitute existing shifts for longer unassigned full shifts with manager's approval. If there are insufficient volunteers for the unassigned hours or days, including shifts or days substituted, the Employer shall schedule by inverse seniority from those departmental employees whose schedules do not conflict with the available hours or days. It shall be in the Employer's discretion whether such hours or days go unfilled. Regular Employees shall be scheduled to work, on a voluntary basis, six (6) days in a pay week at straight time, consistent with the provisions of the California Labor Code and the State of California Industrial Welfare Commission Orders.
G. Finalized schedules shall be posted by noon Sunday no less than two (2) weeks prior to the start of the scheduled week. Changes from the preliminary schedules to the finalized schedules shall be made to reflect assignment of days or hours consistent with Paragraph E and F above or desired department coverage for periods of unplanned absence of other employees, (i.e. vacation or leave of absence) to
Page 10 of 94
insure desired department coverage for planned sales events unknown at the time the preliminary schedule was posted including additional days of sales and departmental sales events; to adjust for customer traffic patterns unknown at the time the preliminary schedule was posted, including changes in store hours.
H. Changes to the finalized schedule must be mutually agreeable between the employee and the Employer. Changes made to the finalized schedule made between the day of posting and day of work shall be offered by seniority and then assigned by inverse seniority, provided the additional hours or days do not result in overtime without prior permission of the Employer. In cases where employee absence or unplanned customer service needs result in the loss of floor coverage or an impairment in business operations, employees who are available and willing to work beyond their schedule may be scheduled to work these additional hours, by seniority among the employees working that day. If the Employer becomes aware of a business need and provides notice by 6 p.m. the preceding day of such a business need, the hours will be offered by seniority to those associates in the department the day the hours become available and then if there are insufficient volunteers, the Employer may schedule by inverse seniority from those working that day. It shall be in the Employer's discretion whether those hours or days shall go unfilled.
I. Any employee scheduled to work a number of hours per week in addition to their base hours for three (3) consecutive months which will qualify them for a new designation will have their base hours adjusted to the new designation as provided for in Section 5. Exceptions to this Paragraph H are: additional hours of work during the Christmas Season and in cases where employees are covering leave:; of absence for defined periods of time.
J. Three days notice will be given to the employee and the Union before laying off Regular Employees.
For Employees during their Orientation Period, Fine Jewelry Center permanent layoffs or Seasonal Employees notice will be given twenty-four (24) hours prior to layoff or by the end of the preceding workday, whichever is shorter.
The layoff notice may be shortened in cases of emergency or where a shorter period of notice is mutually agreeable. Notice given in the first two (2) hours of the start of the scheduled day three days before the lay-off is to begin will be considered timely notice.
K. The daily schedule of hours for all employees will be no less than three (3) hours in half-hour increments. The Employer will limit such three (3) hour schedules to only the night part-time schedules and no more than forty percent (40%) of the part-time schedules will have a starting time of 5 p.m. at Macy's Union Square, 6:15 p.m. at Macy's Stonestown or later. No employee on roll as of the date of ratification shall have their schedule reduced as a result of the implementation of these three (3) hour
Page 11 of 94 schedules. Three (3) hour schedules will not be used in the Furniture, Mattress, Carpet and Women's and Men's Shoes Departments.
L. Other than the provisions of this section, no designation of any type of employee in the Agreement shall be understood to guarantee any fixed amount of employment.
M. No employee shall be required to work a shift extending for a period in excess of eight (8) hours and forty-five (45) minutes, where a forty-five (45) minute meal period is taken, or nine (9) hours where a one hour meal period is taken, without the payment of overtime.
N. Employees covered by this Agreement shall not be required to report to work unless there has been a lapse of at least ten (10) hours between the end of their last work day and the commencement of their next work day, except where agreeable between the Employer and the employee. Should the Employer schedule or require an employee to work a schedule wherein the employee does not receive the ten (10) hour lapse, the Employer will be required to compensate the employee at time-and-one-half for all hours worked up to the ten (10) hour lapse.
0 . Employees may voluntarily exchange scheduled days from their base schedule with another employee in the department so long as the exchange does not involve payment of additional premium. Unless, the voluntary exchange of scheduled days if facilitated through mutual agreement between employees by means of the e-scheduling system, such schedule exchange shall be made on the preliminary schedule at management's discretion or may be made on the final schedule at management's discretion. If the employment of either employee involved in the exchange goes off-roll, the Employer shall have the discretion to restore the original schedule for the remaining employee. Such voluntary schedule exchange shall not be subject to a grievance by other employees in the department. E-scheduling will be implemented no later than the spring season of 2005.
P. The following scheduling provisions shall apply only to Merchandise Handlers:
1. The Company shall increase the number of full time forty-hour (40) merchandise handling positions in the Downtown Store to no less than eighty-six (86). Recall to be made by "Burns" list seniority. The Company agrees to subsequently maintain these eighty-six (86) full time merchandise-handling positions as designated in Section 5A.
--
C. Employees must work their scheduled hours on the working day prior and the working day after the Holiday, in order to receive Holiday pay. Such employee shall be deemed to have worked their schedule if the absence on the working day before and/or after the holiday is with the express written permission of the Employer or due to a bona fide illness. If absent on the day prior and/or after the holiday due to illness the employee must have worked at least one day in the calendar week the holiday falls in order to receive Holiday pay. Eligible Employees laid off the day prior to or the day after the holiday shall receive the holiday pay.
D. Employees with at least two (2) weeks notice to the Employer prior to the issuing of a final schedule will be given the opportunity to use one of his or her vacation days for the celebration of Martin Luther King Day. Employees who regularly work Sunday will be given the first opportunity, by seniority, to add unassigned days or shifts of work in the week Easter falls, if unassigned days or shifts are available.
E. Employees holiday pay calculation shall be calculated by multiplying 1.92% of the previous calendar year gross earnings to obtain the weekly amount and dividing that amount by the Employees base days in the week to obtain a daily rate of pay. Gross earnings shall be defined as all monies paid including salary, vacation, commissions, spiffs, pre-tax health and pre-tax savings plan contributions. Gross earnings shall not include State Disability Insurance, other insurance payments including Workers Compensation or Vendor spiffs. Associates without a full calendar year of employment will receive their base rate until they have worked one calendar year. Effective January 1st, 2000 gross wages will include
http://macys.local 101 xom/contract.htm
the Macy's portion of the sick pay.
Page 16 of 94
F. All Employees, who are eligible to receive pay for the holiday and who work the holiday may receive paid time off within the calendar quarter following the holiday in-lieu of holiday pay. Such option must be mutually agreeable between the Employer and the Employee. The scheduled time off for such Employees will be at a mutually agreeable time. Employees will be required to take this time off during the quarter. If such time off cannot be scheduled at an agreeable time then the employee may be paid for the holiday with the agreement of the Human Resource office and the Employee's manager. The employee is required to notify their manager of their request for the time off prior to the expiration of the calendar quarter.
G. A regular employee shall not be scheduled to work more than four (4) days, excluding the holiday, in the holiday week. Employees may be scheduled off additional days in a holiday week on a voluntary basis.
H. In no event will holiday and/or vacation pay be charged against commission earnings.
SECTION 12-VACATIONS
A. Except in the case of the "grandfathered" employees covered by the final paragraph of text in this Subsection A below, vacation eligibility will be based upon the length of service completed by the start of the benefit year (February 1st), and by employment status. The amount of vacation to which an employee is entitled to have as time off in a calendar year is listed below:
All Regular (i) full time Employees and (ii) part-time employees who work 1300 paid hours or more (less sick hours) in the previous calendar year:
EulLyears_of.continuous.sexyice After One (1) full year of service Two (2) years Three (3) through Four (4) years Five (5) through Fourteen (14) years Fifteen (15) through Twenty-Nine (29) years Thirty (30) years or more
Days_of_Vacation 7 days 12 days 14 days 20 days 25 days 35 days
All Regular part-time Employees who work less than 1300 paid hours (less sick hours) in the previous calendar year:
Full year of continuous service For One (1) full year through Three (3) full years
Days of Vacation 4 days
Four (4) years through Fourteen (14) full years Fifteen (15) years through Twenty-Nine (29) full years Thirty (30) Years or More
--
Any Employee feeling s/he has been unjustly discharged shall have the right to appeal such discharge through the Union within ten (10) calendar days from the date the Union receives notice of the discharge pursuant to Section 31 - Processing of Complaints and Disputes.
The Employer shall have ten (10) calendar days to investigate a suspension which could lead to a discharge. If on the eleventh (11th) day the Employer has not communicated to the Union or the Employee the outcome of the investigation or sent to the Employee by certified mail to the last known address a request to schedule an appointment with the Employer the Employee will be paid their average rate of pay beginning the eleventh (11th) day until such time as the Employee is notified or sent
notification.
Page 24 of 94
B. All notices of discharge shall be given in writing to the employee and the Union within five (5) days of discharge. Such notice shall include the reason(s) for the discharge.
C. If an Employee is discharged on the basis of evidence supplied by a store shopper, investigator, or other undercover employee, a representative of the Union shall have the right to review such evidence, but only upon written demand of the Employee affected through the Union. In the event of discharge due to a shopper's report, such discharge must be made within six (6) days after the completion of the shopper's investigation.
D. In the event the Employer gives a written warning the Employer agrees to furnish such notice to the Employee immediately and the Union within fourteen (14) days. For disciplinary actions, other than discharge, the Employer will set forth a written statement describing the reasons for the discipline and the facts supporting the discipline. When a final written warning is issued to an Employee (one that indicates to an Employee that any further action similar to that contained in the warning or failure to improve work performance may result in immediate discharge) such warning will be furnished to the Union.
E. All cautionary warnings shall become null and void after one (1) year. All written warnings shall become null and void after two (2) years. Final warnings, except for final warnings issued for discriminatory conduct or actions, threats against others, destruction of property or comparable egregious violations of Macy's policies which does not result in termination, shall become null and void after three (3) years.
SECTION 16-SENIORITY
A. The Employer is obligated to recognize the principle of seniority in scheduling, promotions, laying off or rehiring employees as detailed in the specific sections of this Agreement. The principle of seniority shall prevail and control in such layoffs or rehiring where, in the judgment of the Employer, merit and ability are equal. In exercising such judgment, the Employer is obligated to do so fairly, reasonably and impartially, and is further obligated to take into consideration the relative merit and ability of employees with experience in the same type or types of work, and such consideration shall not be limited to the employees in a particular department affected.
Except as provided in Section 16F, it is agreed that application of Section 16 shall be limited to the facility where the Employee is employed and shall not be inter-facility. Employees shall have no right to exercise their Section 16 rights between the facilities for any purpose.
Page 25 of 94 B. When an Employee is transferred from one department to another, s/he shall not lose, but shall retain all seniority rights. It is agreed that employees shall not be transferred from a higher classification to a lower paying classification unless such transfer is brought about by layoff or reduction in work force, or unless such transfer is mutually agreeable to the Employer and the Employee. Employees may be transferred to jobs within the same classification structure. Sales employees in such circumstances shall not suffer loss of potential earning opportunities because of the transfer. In such circumstances the Employer will be required to demonstrate that the average associate has a comparable earnings opportunity. In determining that average the Highest and Lowest commission earnings per hour employees shall not be included in the calculation.
C. The provisions of Section 16 shall not apply to Seasonal employees. Further, the provisions of Section 16 shall not apply to all other employees during their orientation period, except that such employees, when laid off, excluding Seasonal employees which have no recall rights, for a period of up to four (4) months unemployment, shall be offered employment for which they have qualifications before any new employee is hired for such work.
D. Where an Employee is entitled to recall to work from a layoff and cannot be contacted by telephone, the Employer will notify the Employee of availability of work by written communication to his/her last home address on file with the Employer.
Telephone notification to a member of the Employee's family at the Employee's last telephone number on file with the Employer will fulfill the requirements of this subsection.
E. Seniority shall be terminated by:
1. Written resignation.
2. Verbal resignation not withdrawn in writing by the close of the next business day.
3. Discharge for cause.
4. Failure to return from leave of absence granted in accordance with Section 13 (Leaves of Absence).
5. Failure to return to work from layoff within three (3) working days of mailing notification by certified mail by the Employer to the Employee's home address unless just cause for not returning to work is proven.
6. For employees:
http://macy s.local 101 xom/contract.htm
. with less than six (6) months of service, four (4) consecutive months of unemployment;
Page 26 of 94
. for employees with six (6) months to one year of employment, six (6) consecutive months of unemployment;
. for employees with one (1) to two (2) years of service, nine (9) consecutive months of unemployment;
. for employees with two (2) or more years of service, twelve (12) consecutive months of unemployment.
Any and all disputes arising as a result of this Section 16E shall be processed in accordance with the grievance time frames specified in Section 15 - Discipline of Employees.
F. It is agreed in application of Section 16 (Seniority) it shall be limited to the facility (Downtown or Stonestown) where the employee is employed and shall not be inter facility. Employees shall have no right to exercise their Section 16 seniority rights between facilities for any purpose, except as provided in this paragraph. On a limited allowance per year from Union Square and Stonestown no more than three (3) employees from each facility will be eligible to move into a position in the alternate facility. The employee from outside of the facility that is posting the position must bid in accordance to Section 8B and must meet all eligibility and qualification requirements. The employee's bid shall only be considered if no other internal bid from within the facility that posted the position was received or all internal bids received within the facility that posted the position were ineligible for consideration. If the employee bidding from outside the facility is offered a position their Section 16 rights will become effective at the start of the benefit year, following the date of transfer.
SECTION 17 - GENERAL WORKING CONDITIONS
A. The Employer agrees to provide lockers, clean and adequate facilities for the storage of the wearing apparel of the employees.
B. All complaints concerning, lunch periods, lunchrooms, breaks, or lifting may be processed through Section 31 (Processing of Complaints and Disputes).
C. Where the Employer requires employees to wear identical garb as to style or fashion, when such garb is not suitable for street wear, the Employer shall furnish the same. The Employer shall also provide for the maintenance of such garb.
D. The Employer may establish and enforce any safety rules, regulations, or divisionally approved facility or store rules (i.e. policies such as express credits solicitation, reasonable expectations,
--
The Union may grieve the application of the rule or regulation to a specific individual as being arbitrary or capricious or in violation of an express term of this Agreement.
The Employer shall post or otherwise publicize all such rules and regulations in order that all Employees affected may have an opportunity to become familiar with them. All such rules and/or regulations shall be enforced uniformly and without discrimination.
E. No person shall be discriminated against in regard to hire, tenure of employment or job status by reason of race, color, creed, national origin, age, sex, sexual orientation, medical or mental disabilities as defined in the Americans With Disabilities Act.
Job openings shall be filled by promotions by seniority, consistent with Section 16 (A), wherever possible and always on a non-discriminatory basis. All permanent openings in higher rated jobs shall be publicized well in advance in order that all employees including minority race employees and female employees may have an opportunity to notify management of their desire to be considered for promotion to a better position or to a higher paying department.
F. In the event the Employer offers a rewards program in which employees bring forward ideas which are ultimately utilized by Macy's, the Downtown San Francisco Store(s) and the Stonestown Store shall participate in said program.
SECTION 18 - ASSIGNMENT OF WORK
Page 28 of 94
It is recognized by the Employer and the Union that it is every Employee's responsibility to perform the duties of their position in a manner which creates a cooperative environment and to work as a.team in performing their duties. Further the parties recognize that the objective of all employees is to meet the needs of the Employer's customers.
A. It is recognized by the Employer and the Union that a sales employee's primary duty is to serve and attend to the needs of the Employer's customers. It is recognized that selling employees may be required to work in non-selling activities, and at times in non-sell areas in order to properly assist or provide for customer needs, with the following limitations:
1. This work will be distributed as equitably as possible among all the sales employees in a given department, and shall not be assigned in a manner which prevents the salesperson from attending to customers who are in the department. Nor shall such non-sell work be assigned in a manner which purposely curtails a salesperson's opportunity to attend to their own clientele. Finally, the assignments shall not be of a length or duration that unreasonably restricts the salesperson from their primary duty. Sales Associates will be scheduled no more than half (Yi) an hour before store opening or after store closing. Sales Associates may work in addition to the half (Vi) hour on a voluntary basis.
2. A salesperson may volunteer to work with management approval prior to or in addition to the halfhour (Vi) limit set in Section 18, A. 1, and shall be given non-productive hours.
3. The following guidelines will be used in determining appropriate non-sell duties to be performed by sales associates:
a. Sales associates will not be scheduled to work in stockrooms or in support areas (including Fitting rooms).
b. Sales associates may be assigned to perform non sell work that may be performed on the selling floor as long as it does not inhibit their ability to sell to the customers that come in the department.
c. Work that would comply with this section would include work comparable to:
Getting back stock directly for a customer when an item is not on the floor.
Shoe Department "drags".
Recovery of fitting rooms so long as the activity does not impact an Associate's ability to service http://macys.loca! 101 xom/contract.htm
customers.
Page 29 of 94
d. Work that would not comply with this section would include work comparable to:
Regular or historical merchandise handling functions.
Schedules designed to permit the performance of stock work.
B. Express Credit.
1. Employer agrees to remove all existing express credit warnings following ratification of the contract.
2. For the full term of the new contract, Employer will not bar employees from job bidding, if they are only on a cautionary warning for express credits; Employer will not subject Fitting Room Checkers to discipline standards, although Fitting Room Checkers will still be required to solicit the opening of accounts, and Employer will provide a seasonal report, if requested in writing, that summarizes the express credit accounts for which employees have received credit. Additionally, changes to express credit discipline standard for Union Square and Stonestown only if the discipline standard changes for a majority of Macy's West employees. Discipline for Express Credit shall be subject to progressive discipline i.e. Cautionary, Written, Final then Termination. Warnings will remain in effect for a rolling 12-months.
3. The following minimum disciplinary standard will be in place until at least August 1, 2005:
a. For all regular sales associates, cashiers and service specialists who work a minimum of 160 hours or more in each bi-monthly review period, two (2) Express Credit applications.
b. For all regular sales associates, cashiers and service specialists who work less than 160 hours in each bi-monthly review period, one (1) Express Credit application.
C. The Employer may temporarily assign non-selling employees to do selling work during peak selling hours and/or seasons or to cover due to unexpected absences.
D. Vendor Representatives, who are not on the payroll of the Employer, must follow the Collective Bargaining Agreement between Macy's and the Union.
--
SECTION 22 FIDELITY BOND PREMIUMS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATIONS
A. The Employer shall pay all premiums for fidelity bonds required by the Employer and shall pay for all charges for physical examinations required by the Employer.
B. The Employer shall compensate the employee at his straight-time rate of pay for time spent undergoing any physical examination required by the Employer.
SECTION 23 - USE OF AUTOMOBILE
When the Employer requires and authorizes in writing an employee to use his/her own car in the performance of his/her work, the Employer shall pay a mileage allowance of not less than thirty-four and one-half (34.5*) cents per mile and shall change as Macy's changes for the majority of its employees.
Should the Employer offer a Commuter Check Plan for its employees that plan shall apply to the Downtown San Francisco Store(s) and the Stonestown Store.
SECTION 24 DEMONSTRATORS, LEASED AND SUB-LEASED DEPARTMENTS
Page 32 of 94
A. Demonstrators shall receive the same scale of wages as provided herein for the classification of merchandise they are demonstrating, and all of the terms of the Agreement, except the provisions of Section 16 (Seniority) shall apply to such persons. In the case of casual demonstrators (those employed less than ninety (90) consecutive working days), the right of appeal in case of discharge shall not apply except in the case of discharge for Union membership or activity.
1. This Section and the provisions of this Agreement shall not have application to demonstrations of less. than thirty (30) days in duration, wherein the demonstrators are employed by and controlled by persons or companies other than the Employer. The Employer agrees to notify the Union of the date the demonstration will start and end. Further, the Employer agrees that all terms of Section A will apply to any demonstration effective on the 31st day of the demonstration.
B. The provisions of this Agreement shall apply to all leased or subleased departments which are presently covered by the Agreement, except as specifically outlined below.
1. This Section and Subsection and the provisions of this Agreement shall not have any application to future leased or subleased departments where in the term of the lease or sublease is less than ninety (90) days.
2. Any grievance regarding this Section will be handled in an expedited manner, and a meeting will be held no later than three (3) working days, at the request of the grieving party.
C. In the Downtown San Francisco Cosmetics Department the Employer may staff one Cosmetics Counter/Vendor, that is not currently (June 14, 1996) contained in the Downtown San Francisco Store, with 100% vendor paid associates who are not covered by the terms of this agreement, but who may perform functions similar to other Cosmetics Sales Associates. This will not result in the lay off or reduction of any current sales associates. It is understood in application of this provision that said vendor sales associates will not intersell other Cosmetics merchandise and will turn the intersell over to other respective lines. Non-vendor associates as part of the normal intersell may sell the vendor merchandise. All stock functions, consistent with the regular cosmetics stock practice, shall be performed by bargaining unit stock associates. This Counter/Vendor shall be maintained in no more than two (2) locations within the Downtown Store, and shall not increase beyond the linear selling size or floor square footage than is in place as of the date of ratification of this agreement.
It is understood and agreed all other vendor supported employees of Macy's Downtown and Stonestown, including "merchandise specialists" will be subject to the terms of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
SECTION 25 - DISCOUNTS
Page 33 of 94
A. All employees covered under the terms of this agreement shall receive an employee discount on purchases in accordance with the Employee Discount Policy affecting a majority of the employer's employees under the employee discount plan.
B. The Employer does agree to provide the Union with a copy of the discount program in its present form and provide in a prompt manner copies of any changes that may be implemented to the discount program in the future. Additionally, the Employer will provide to the Union a copy of the rules and policies regarding use of the discount by eligible employees.
SECTION 26 EXECUTIVE SELLING ACTIVITIES AND WORK ACTIVITIES
The Employer seasonally may assign one manager (as defined in Section 2 of this Agreement) per department who may perform the same type of selling work as non-supervisory Employees in up to seven (7) Merchandise Departments without violation of this Agreement. The Company will notify the Union of the seven (7) departments and any changes to the list of seven (7).
In these seven (7) departments if the Employees are eligible for commission the managers personal sales will be calculated seasonally and the value of the predominant commission rate for Associates in the department on the managers sales (example: in 1% departments, even if a minority has a different commission rate, 1% of the executive sales will be calculated), will be distributed to commission eligible associates based on hours worked in the season by the associates on roll at the end of the season.
For all other departments, in regards to Executive selling activities and work activities, for all executives including those above, the following general rules of guidance and practice shall be followed:
1. That executives shall not take unfair advantage of their position in making sales by any of the following practices:
a. Intentionally sending or directing salespeople to leave the selling floor or to perform non-selling work in order to enable said executives to make sales to the detriment of salespersons.
b. Making sales themselves and crediting or turning over said sales to a person or persons selected by them to be written up, thereby depriving other salespersons in the department of the opportunity of an equitable division of sales opportunities within the department.
c. Unduly or unreasonably appropriating to themselves the opportunity to wait on customers or to fill mail or phone orders to the exclusion of other salespersons in the department where such salespersons are available for such work.
Page 34 of 94
It is understood between the Company and the Union that Section 26 Subsection 1-b does not prohibit the Company from having Executives do bargaining unit work for the purposes of merchandise presentation, training and customer service which cannot be completely performed by the employees working on the job at the time or in the event of an emergency. In arriving at such understanding the Company and the Union have agreed as follows regarding the duties Executives may perform without violation of the Agreement:
Permitted duties of Executives which are presumed permitted under the terms of the Agreement (said duties may be performed in addition to Stock/Sales Associates).
1. Stock functions executed when working directly with an associate in a training capacity, or when, a. Getting an item from the stock room directly for a customer when necessary for customer service; b. Opening merchandise in the stock room for purpose of determining content;
--
Selling Supervisors and Working Supervisors covered by the terms of this Agreement may perform supervisorial functions to assist executives in the performance of their duties, including coaching and counseling employees on their respective job duties, assigning work duties and other supervisorial assignments necessary for the effective operation of the department and the store. Such duties shall only be assumed upon the successful bidding for the assignment under Section 17E, assignment by the employer and a three (3) hour orientation held jointly with the Union and the Employer. The Employer agrees to notify the Union as to the names(s) of the Supervisor(s) and to arrange for the orientation.
SECTION 28 - HEALTH AND LIFE INSURANCE PLAN
A. The Employer shall provide a health plan(s) for eligible employees covered by this Agreement and for qualified dependents of such employees. The health care plan(s) shall be the same plan(s) as that
Page 36 of 94
provided to the majority of the Employer's employees and shall change when changes are made in plan (s) which affect the majority of the Employer's employees. The health care plan(s) shall be outlined in booklets which will be given each covered employee.
B. Any changes in the applicable health plan(s) contribution rates or eligibility qualifications affecting a majority of the other employees covered under the applicable plan shall be effective at the same time for any employees covered under this Agreement.
SECTION 29 - SICKNESS PAY BENEFITS
A. General Description
1. Sick pay benefits are provided to minimize the economic hardships that may result from an unexpected illness or injury to an employee.
2. The Employer provided Sickness Pay Benefit Program is integrated as a supplement to the State Disability Insurance Benefit and Workers' Compensation Benefits Programs.
3. This new sick pay plan shall be in effect for all illness or injury beginning on or after January 1, 1994.
B. Eligibility
1. An employee is eligible for sickness pay benefits if the following requirements are met:
a. Prior to illness and/or injury the employee is performing work covered by the terms and conditions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, and
b. The employee, when eligible, has applied for and has qualified for State Disability Insurance or Workers" Compensation Disability Benefits in accordance with California Law, and
c. The employee is a Regular employee who works 20 hours or more per week and has been employed for more than six (6) month and has worked eighty (80) hours or more in the month immediately prior to the calendar month in which absence for sickness or injury occurs;
2. For the purpose of this provision, time paid for but not worked, i.e. paid holidays, paid vacations and periods during which sickness pay benefits are received, shall be considered as time worked.
3. The provision for hours worked in the preceding calendar month shall be waived for employees who are normally scheduled to work the required number of hours where the employee is on authorized
http://macys.loca! 101 .com/contract.htm
Page 37 of 94
leave of absence of no longer than thirty (30) days and becomes ill or disabled. The employee will then become eligible for any sick pay benefits as of the date the employee was due to return to work.
C. Waiting Period
The period for which sickness pay benefits are payable shall begin with the first day of hospital confinement, or the fourth (4th) calendar day of sickness or injury, whichever is first; except as shown below:
Years of Service as of Date Waiting Period of Sickness or Injury
.Waiting-Period
Two (2) year or more but less than five (5) years
Three (3) calendar days
Five (5) years or more
Two (2) calendar days
For Employees hired prior to 10/8/93 and on
One (1) calendar day
roll for ten (10) years or more
Sickness pay benefits are payable from the first day of absence from work where an employee is
--
E. Computation of Sickness Pay Benefits
1. For any illness or injury which begins on or after August 1, 1996, the sickness pay benefits shall be paid at sixty-six and two thirds (66 2/3's) of average pay for the days eligible for sick pay. Average pay shall be computed as per Section 11 less benefits received from California Disability Insurance (not including hospital benefits) or less Workers' Compensation Benefits received by the employee.
2. Sickness Pay Benefits can only be taken in full days.
F. Payment of Sickness Benefits
1. The employee shall be responsible for notifying the Employer of sickness or injury in accordance with the established store rules of the Employer. An Employee's failure to notify the Human Resources Office and provide a medical certification of inability to work within six (6) calendar days of illness or injury may result in a loss or delay in the payment of sickness pay benefits. Failure to notify the Human Resources of an injury or illness may result in loss of employment. No employee shall be terminated for failure to notify the Human Resources Office, if the Employee's injury or illness precludes them from doing so.
2. The employee shall be responsible for filing his/her disability claim form DE2501 with the department of Employment and/or his/her industrial accident claim. No sickness pay benefits will be paid until this is done and a current medical certification of inability to work is on file with the Employer.
3. Upon receipt of "Disability Insurance Notice of Computation" form DE 429 from the Department of Employment, the employee shall present this form in person or by mail to the Employer.
4. Upon receipt of the "Disability Insurance Notice of Computation" form DE 429 from the employee, the Employer shall pay any sickness benefits due the employee on the next payroll period immediately following receipt of the form DE 429 and return the form to the employee for his/her records, provided the Employer has a current medical certification of inability to work on file.
a. Sickness pay benefits shall be paid on a separate check or cash voucher not incorporated with any other monies due the employee. Where the employee is out ill at a time payment is due, the Employer
will mail the check to the employee's home address.
Page 39 of 94
5. Only deductions as prescribed by law or authorized by the employee shall be made from sickness pay benefit payments.
G. Exclusions
1. Sickness pay benefits shall not be paid when the employee is ineligible to receive disability insurance payments under the California Unemployment Insurance Code or Worker's Compensation Benefits under the Worker's Compensation Act.
a. Exception shall be made in the case of an employee who does not have sufficient earnings in his/her base period to qualify, but who qualifies under all other provisions of the code.
2. Sickness pay benefits shall not be paid during any period where the employee would not otherwise be eligible for payment of wages, i.e., leave of absence, layoff, or absence because of trade disputes. Before the employee on layoff becomes eligible for sickness pay benefits, s/he must have worked required number of hours outlined in (B) of this Section in the month preceding the illness or injury in accordance with B (1) and (2) hereof. Before an employee on Leave of Absence or absence because of trade dispute becomes eligible for sickness pay benefits, s/he must have returned to work for at least one work day (except as provided in B hereof).
3. The Employer reserves the right to request medical certification of inability to work due to sickness or injury, provided, however, such certification will not be requested prior to the second day of paid sickness leave, except for chronic and/or pattern cases.
H. The Employer reserves the right to become self-insured for State Disability Insurance at a later date.
SECTION 30 - PENSION
Macy's West will provide a pension plan and pension benefits for eligible employees covered under the terms of this Collective Bargaining Agreement consistent with the pension plan and benefits provided to the majority of the Macy's West'employees. The pension plan and the benefits shall change when changes are made in the plan affecting the majority of the Macy's West employees.
At the time of retirement of an employee covered by this Agreement, the Employer will notify the Union of the name and address of the employee, the date of the employee's most recent employment and the date of the employee's retirement.
SECTION 31 - PROCESSING OF COMPLAINTS AND DISPUTES
Page 40 of 94
A. A "grievance" is defined as a dispute over the interpretation or application of an express term of this collective bargaining agreement alleging the agreement has been violated and as a result an employee's rights under this agreement have been adversely affected. Before filing a grievance, an employee who believes that the agreement has been violated and, as a result, her/his rights have been adversely affected (except in instances of suspension or discharge) is encouraged to resolve the issue with her/his immediate supervisor. In the first alternative, the employee's assigned shop steward shall meet with the employee's store manager or designee and shall attempt in good faith to resolve the issue. In the second alternative the employee shall contact her/his Union Membership Service Representative or Business Agent who shall meet with the Employer's designated representative and shall attempt in good faith to resolve the issue. If the dispute is unresolved following this aforementioned meeting, the employee may then request a grievance be filed by the Union.
B. A grievance to be considered as properly submitted, must be filed within sixty (60) days of the date of occurrence to the designated representative of the employer, in writing, on the prescribed form fully completed with all information available to the Union, stating specific contract sections alleged to be violated, facts which show that a violation occurred, name of grievant(s), and specification of how the grievant(s) have been harmed by the alleged violation. For a grievance to be considered timely filed such information will be provided in a manner as to make clear to a reasonable person the specific basis for the alleged violation. Within thirty (30) days following the submission of the grievance, it shall be heard at the weekly grievance meeting.
C. Grievances regarding a discharge must be submitted by the Union within ten (10) calendar days from the date the Union receives written notice of the discharge.
D. Any grievance not filed or heard within the time limits in Section 31 B and C will be deemed null and void. Time limits may be extended upon mutual agreement between the employer and the Union.
E. The parties shall establish regularly scheduled weekly meetings at which time grievances shall be discussed between the Employer and the Union. Other than discipline grievances (i.e. discharge, suspension, warning or demotion) at the time the grievance is discussed, the Union is required to set forth the facts supporting the grievance, witnesses to the facts and how these facts support a violation of the contract. Failure on the behalf of the Union to supply such information will cause the grievance to be deemed as untimely under the provisions of Section 31 (A). Failure by the Employer to respond to a grievance within fourteen (14) calendar days from the original weekly grievance meeting shall cause the Employer to comply with the remedy requested.
F. The Union and the Employer agree to discuss issues separately from the "grievance" discussion in the
http://macys.loca! 101 .com/contract, htm
Page 41 of 94
same meeting. The parties further agree that those issues not covered by the express terms of this agreement shall not be grieved.
G. The parties shall establish a monthly Mediation session with a Mediator affiliated with the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service. At least two (2) weeks prior to said session, the Union shall list the outstanding grievances that have been deadlocked at the weekly meetings that the Union wishes to pursue in mediation. Failure by the Union to list a grievance deadlocked at a weekly meeting will be considered a waiver of the Union's right to proceed to Mediation. If the parties are unable to agree on a resolution, the Mediator shall make an immediate written recommendation. Said recommendation shall not be binding and shall not be admissible as evidence in any arbitration, except as may be necessary for the allocation of costs and expenses as set forth below.
H. Said weekly and monthly meetings shall not be cancelled except for unusual circumstances.
I. If the matter is not resolved following the mediation session, the Union may, within fourteen (14) days following receipt of the written documentation from the Mediator, request in writing that the matter be submitted to binding arbitration. Submitted with the request for arbitration must be a list of issues the Union is requesting the arbitrator to hear. Failure by the Union to request arbitration within such time frames or to submit the list of issues will be considered a waiver of the Union's right to proceed to arbitration. Within fourteen (14) days after the Union specifies the issue(s) to be submitted the Company must set forth any objections to the formulation of the issue(s) by the Union and propose alternative formulation(s). Failure of the Company to respond and set forth alternate formulations will be deemed an acceptance of the issues as formulated by the Union.
J. The impartial arbitrator shall be selected by agreement of the parties. In the event the parties are unable to agree upon an arbitrator, he/she shall be selected by the strike-off method from a list of qualified and experienced labor arbitrators obtained from the American Arbitration Association (AAA). Each party shall have the right to reject one list provided by the AAA. Each arbitration will be conducted in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association.
K. An arbitrator shall have no power to add to, subtract from, change, or modify any provision of this Agreement, but shall be authorized only to interpret the existing provisions of this Agreement and apply them to specific facts of the complaint or dispute.
L. The selected arbitrator shall issue a written decision to the parties within thirty (30) days of the submission of written briefs to the arbitrator.
M. Any agreement reached at the weekly meetings or the monthly mediations and any arbitration decision shall be accepted as final and binding. If a party refuses to accept the recommendation of the
Page 42 of 94 Mediator and does not receive a more favorable determination by the arbitrator, the other party shall be considered the prevailing party. Expenses and verified costs of the prevailing party shall be borne by the other party, including cost of the arbitrator, reporting, and cost of meeting rooms incurred as the result of arbitration. In all other areas the parties will share the respective costs, one-half (1/2) to be borne by each side. Cost of attorney fees and the publication of the transcript shall be borne by the party incurring the fees.
SECTION 32 - NO STRIKE - NO LOCK OUT
A. There shall be no strike or lockout during the life of this Agreement.
B. The Union agrees to give the Employer at least ten (10) days advance written notice of any intent by the Union to honor a primary sanctioned picket line when established by another union directed at Macy's San Francisco and Stonestown.
C. A primary sanctioned picket line is one sanctioned by the UFCW International Union and the San Francisco Labor Council.
SECTION 33 - WAGE RATES AND JOB CLASSIFICATIONS
A. No contract rate herein provided shall be considered as other than a minimum rate, and no wage rate being paid to an individual employee as of the date of this Agreement above the minimum provided herein for the classification in which the employee is working shall be reduced.
B. Progression Schedule
Effective for all new hires after the date of ratification, for all classifications under the Collective Bargaining Agreement, the progression schedule shall be:
Months of continuous service:
--
1. Inexperienced employees may be hired at the lowest rate of pay of the progression schedule for their classification of work.
2. An experienced employee who has had comparable experience in the retail and department store industry equivalent to the completion of one or more steps within the progression schedule for his/her classification of work, may be hired at the rate of pay for the progression step equivalent to his/her past experience, but such employee shall not be entitled to the highest rate in the progression schedule until s/he completes fifty (50) working days. However, this language does not preclude the Employer from hiring individuals above the maximum of the classification if such action is necessary to secure an individual. The Employer agrees that it will not act in an arbitrary manner in this regard and that it will not exercise its right herein, except in certain limited situations where the individual is of a reputation that will enhance the Employer's selling opportunities.
3. The rates of pay as established in 1 and 2 above will also apply to Seasonal Employees. Such employees shall not receive progressive wage increases during the period of their seasonal employment. Christmas Season Employees may be hired at 70% of the thereafter rate.
4. All progression steps will be adjusted according to their % of the thereafter rate consistent with the wage increases.
5. Effective June 1, 2003 the entry rate of pay may be $8.50 in selling grades I, II and III, and in all nonselling grades.
C. An employee who works more than fifty percent (50%) of the time in any one day in a classification calling for a higher rate of pay than his/her regular rate shall be paid for the entire day at such higher rate.
D. Biweekly Pay
The Employer, with thirty (30) days advance notice to the Union and the Employees, may convert at the same time as the majority of the other Employer's employees to a biweekly pay period.
E. The reclassification of a Regular employee as the result of a successful complaint of improper classification, shall be effective retroactively to the date the employee was placed in the disputed classification, or the date not more than one hundred twenty (120) days prior to the claim of
misclassification, whichever period is shorter.
Page 44 of 94
F. Should any job classification, new departments or division be established which are not covered by the Agreement and are not, by the terms of this agreement excluded from the coverage of the same, either party will, upon request of the other party, discuss wages applicable to such employees, and in the event the parties are unable to arrive at agreement as to the proper wage classification (including new commission arrangements) for the new classification, the matter may be submitted by the Union for disposition to an impartial arbitrator following the procedures contained in Section 31 of this Agreement.
G. WAGES:
Thereafter rates 6-1-04 6-1-05 6-1-06 6-1-07
Selling Classifications
Grade 1
Downtowna $12.34 $12.74 $13.14 $13.59
Stonestown
Grade II
--
If any Section of this Agreement or Appendices thereto should be held invalid by operation of law or by any tribunal of competent jurisdiction, or if compliance with or enforcement of any Section is restrained by such tribunal pending a final termination as to its validity, the remainder of this Agreement and of any Appendix thereto, or the application of such.Section to persons or circumstances other than those as to which it has been held invalid or as to which compliance with or enforcement of has been restrained, shall not be affected thereby.
SECTION 35 - TRANSFER AND REMOVAL OF WORK
No work now being performed by the employees within the bargaining unit shall be transferred or removed from the bargaining unit without at least sixty (60) days advance notice to the Union affected by certified or registered mail setting forth the nature of such intended change(s), dates of such change (s) and whether the change involves the elimination of a work or departmental operation or a change in method of operation wherein present bargaining unit employee's job or position would be eliminated. Any employee displaced as a result of those situations where the change results in the elimination of entire departments or work operations, or individual job functions within a department will, in order of seniority, be offered the opportunity to displace among the least senior employee in their same classification, provided the employee has the requisite merit and ability to perform the function of the least senior employee in accordance with Section 16 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. The classification shall be defined as the major grouping (i.e. Grade C1 - 1a through f). The Employer shall provide whatever in-store training necessary to place the affected employee(s) in other available positions regardless of classification. In such situations, the affected employee(s) shall, have the option of accepting the available position or of going on layoff status.
The employer upon notice to the Union, agrees to institute a hiring freeze for the classifications, or work types affected by the transfer or removal, as well as for Grade ! selling positions, in an effort to create and/or keep for the affected employees, as many available open positions as possible.
Page 55 of 94
It is understood that such available open positions are the only positions that the affected employees can transfer to, and the hiring freeze does not apply to positions of the type that the affected employees would not be experienced or qualified for. Should all of the prospective displaced employees fail to accept an available position and choose to accept a layoff, the Employer shall fill the available position(s) in accordance with Section 16. The Employer agrees to offer to those on layoff status, as a result of the job elimination, positions that become available in the future before any new employee is hired. The offer of newly available positions shall be in accordance with Section 16, and this Section shall have priority and precedence over Section 17E.
In those situations cited above if the Union has served notice on the Employer within seven (7) days of receipt of the above-mentioned Employer notice, the parties shall meet as soon as possible to discuss the effects of such above-mentioned changes on the bargaining unit employees. If displacement results in loss of work resulting in layoff, then the Employer and the Union will meet to discuss the effects of such layoff and negotiate applicable severance and general release. Grievances by employees regarding the effects of the change(s) will be subject to all provisions of Section 31.
SECTION 36 - LABOR MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
The parties have agreed to establish a Labor Management Committee. This Committee will consists of a Business Agent of the Union, a Human Resources representative of Macy's and three (3) regular employees from the affected department(s) selected by the Union.
The Labor Management Committee shall meet once per quarter at a time and date mutually agreeable to Macy's and the Union. At least two (2) weeks prior to the meeting, the Union will advise Macy's of the subjects to be discussed at the Labor Management Committee meeting, so that Macy's will be prepared for the meeting. Following the meeting, the Human Resources representative will be responsible for following up with the members of the committee as to Macy's response.
The committee does not have the authority to interpret, alter, change or modify any section of the Collective Bargaining agreement, as well as, any Company policy or procedure not expressly covered in the agreement. Disputes over the interpretation or application of the contract or any alleged contract violations will continue to be heard solely at the weekly grievance meeting as defined in Section 31. The focus of the meetings shall be on issues of departmental or storewide concern and not be a forum for personal issues or gripes.
This letter of understanding remains in effect during the life of the contract, unless there is a mutual agreement to rescind or modify it.
SECTION 37 - TERM OF AGREEMENT
Page 56 of 94
This Agreement shall be effective the first day of June 2004 and shall remain in full force and effect until midnight May 31, 2008, and shall continue in effect thereafter from year to year unless either party hereto serves notice in writing sixty (60) days prior to the anniversary date of this Agreement of its desire to modify or change this Agreement.
The parties hereto agree that all issues between them are settled by this Agreement for the full term thereof.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have hereunto set their hands, by their respective officers or representatives thereunto duly authorized.
MACY'S WEST
UFCW LOCAL1(B
UFCWMGAL 'iffif
--
GRADE B1 Area Suffix Office and Clerical 35 50 Mail room clerk/divisional GRADE B2 Area Suffix 35 05 Sales Support (fitting room checker, gift wrapper) GRADE C1 Area Suffix 70 10 Office and Clerical (buyer 70 20 clerical, error control clerk) 70 28 Divisional Clerical GRADE C2 Area Suffix 35 05 Delivery wrapper and Floor cashier GRADE D 2
Page 65 of 94 1/31/2005
Area Suffix 70 Sales Support (Cashier office) GRADE E 1 Area Suffix 25 15 Office and Clerical 80 70 (Bookkeeper and 92 04 Office/Visitor Support center) 92 05 GRADE F1B, F1BN* Area Suffix 35 20 Supply Clerk 80 10 Recovery (seasonal) 80 70 90 02 Este Lauder Stock 90 03 Clinique Stock 90 18 Night Processors* 90 19 Seasonal Support 90 20 Seasonal Recovery 90 21 Seasonal Recovery
Page 66 of 94 1/31/2005
90 23 Seasonal Recovery 90 24 Seasonal Recovery 90 50 Cellar 90 51 1st Floor West Stock 90 52 West 3rd Floor Stock 90 53 West 4th Floor Stock 90 54 Trim a home 90 55 West 6th Floor Domestics 90 57 RTW North Bldg. 90 58 Men's Lower Level Stock GRADE FIB (continued) Area Suffix 91 58 Men's Suit Stock 92 58 Men's Polo Stock 90 59 Men's 1st Floor Stock 90 60 Cosmetic Stock 90 61 Women's Shoe Stock 90 62 Women's Shoe Stock
Page 67 of 94 1/31/2005
90 63 Men's Shoe Stock 90 64 Luggage Stock 90 65 Gift Wrap Stock 90 66 Men's 2nd Floor Stock 90 66 Men's 3rd Floor Stock 90 68 Open-sell cosmetics 90 69 Tabletop Stock (Merchandise Handling/Stock Clerk, and Supply Clerk, Signers, Sensomatic Team) *For purposes of wages only GRADE F1C Area Suffix 70 30 Fine Jewelry Center (Merchandise Processor) GRADE F1D Area Suffix 55 29 Photo Studio (Merchandise Handler) GRADE F2A Area Suffix StockClerk.Grandfathered See F1B Store Stock Associate
Page 68 of 94 1/31/2005
92 04 Corporate Sales 92 07 Bridal Registry 92 08 Bridal Registry GRADE F2B Area Suffix 90 10 Sales Support (Delivery Packer and Parcel Clerk) GRADE G Area Suffix xx xx Recovery GRADEH Area Suffix 07 08 Alterations (Women's Alterations and fitter, Hand-Machine Presser) 09 76 Women's Alterations GRADE I Area Suffix 60 30 Copy Center, Duplicating Machine Operator
Page 69 of 94 1/31/2005
UFCWVUFCW LOCAL 101
Page 70 of 94
APPENDIX C
ATTENDANCE POLICY
1. GENERAL ABSENTEEISM POLICY
Macy's California believes it is the obligation of every employee to report to work on time as scheduled each day and to work their entire schedule.
II. STANDARD
A. Punctuality in reporting to the job is expected from every employee and is essential to the smooth operation of the business.
B. 1. An absence occurs any time an employee is scheduled to work, but does not report. This does NOT include approved time off for vacation, holidays, bereavement leave, jury duty, approved leave of absence including pre-approved sick leave, or for any other written approved reason. All employees who are unable to report to work must inform the personnel office prior to their scheduled starting time and inform them of the reason for their pending absence, and how long they will be out An employee out of work due to illness for five (5) or more working days must provide Human Resources, for purposes of SDI, current medical certification of ability to work, or inability to work. In cases of Worker's Compensation, this certification must still be provided on the first day.
2. The Employer shall consider all circumstances presented by an employee (or union representative on his behalf) before classifying an attendance incident as an "occurrence" or "irregularity".
C. Absences shall be recorded into three (3) categories:
1. Reported absences: Those in which the employee is not reporting to work but has contacted Human Resources in accordance with the above procedures. If an employee reports an anticipated return date, they do not have to call in each day, unless the return date goes beyond original anticipated return date.
2. Job Abandonment: Failure to report to work within two (2) days of notification, or failure to report for two consecutive days.
3. Failure to Report Off: Unless serious illness or injury precludes an employee from reporting off work,
http://macys.locall01 .com/contract.htm
--
Page 73 of 94
3. Begin by being supportive. Tell the employee you want to help, don't lecture or become angry. If the employee expresses that they are having a personal crisis contributing to their attendance problem, suggest the EAP (Macy's Employee Assistance Program) to them if appropriate.
4. Use the documentation to show evidence. Don't rely on memory-have it in front of you. Ask if they have any comments.
VI. DEFINITIONS
1. ABSENCE-Failure of an employee to report to work when scheduled, or unscheduled time off the job (unless time off approved by executive or is a certified workers compensation illness/injury), consecutive absences for the same reason shall be deemed one incident.
2. TARDY-Failure of an employee to report to their work station within five (5) minutes of their schedule, or punch in within five (5) minutes of their scheduled time.
5-14 minutes = Vi point
15 or more minutes = 1 point
3. HOME EARLY-Failure of the employee to work their full scheduled shift if initiated by the employee and not approved by the manager.
4. LONG LUNCH-Failure of the employee to return from meals or breaks in their allotted or agreed upon time.
5-29 minutes tardy = 1/2 point
30 or more minutes tardy = 1 point
5. JOB ABANDONMENT-Failure to report to work within two (2) days of notification, or failure to report for two (2) consecutive days.
6. ATTENDANCE IRREGULARITY/INCIDENT-Any time an employee arrives late, leaves early, or is not at work (other than approved times specified).
VII. GRIEVANCE RIGHTS AND SCOPE OF AGREEMENT http://macys.locall01.com/contract.htm
Page 74 of 94
A. Nothing in this policy shall be deemed to waive any of the Union's rights or obligations to grieve the . application of this policy to an individual employee who has completed the probationary period. The parties agree the Divisional Attendance Policy applies to all non-probationary bargaining unit employees.
Any employee who currently has nine (9) or less points under the Divisional Attendance guidelines shall be deemed to have zero points under this policy effective on date of approval by the parties.
An employee having either 10 or 11 points under the guidelines will be deemed to have nine (9) points under the policy, deletion to be the oldest incidents.
VIII. ATTENDANCE CREDITS
--
5. Leaye_is_Partially_Paid
You may be eligible to receive under the Paid Family Care Leave Act, up to 6 weeks partially paid leave under Family Temporary Disability Insurance, and you may also be eligible for short or long-term disability payments and/or workers' compensation benefits. Those plans are described in the benefit information brochure, "Macy's More You". If you request leave because of a birth, adoption, or foster care placement of a child, your unused vacation accrual and any paid time off will first be substituted for unpaid Family and Medical Leave. If you request leave for a pregnancy-related disability, or any disability for your own serious health condition, you may use your unused vacation accrual if you desire. However, if you request leave because of your own serious health condition, your Family and Medical Leave will run concurrently with other Company provided leave, except where prohibited by law. The substitution of paid leave time for unpaid leave time does not extend the 12-week leave period. Further, in no case may the substitution of paid leave time for unpaid leave time result in you receiving more than 100% of your salary.
6. Me.dical_and_Qther_Ben^fits
For the first 12 weeks of an approved Family and Medical Leave, the Company will maintain your health benefits as if you continued to be actively employed. If you take a leave for disability caused by pregnancy, childbirth, or a related medical condition and follow that leave with a leave to care for your
Page 79 of 94
newborn child, your leave may exceed 12 weeks, but we will only pay the company contribution for medical benefits for the first 12 weeks you are on leave. If paid leave is substituted for unpaid Family and Medical Leave, the Company will deduct your portion of the health plan premium as a regular payroll deduction. If your leave is unpaid, you must pay your portion of the premium through direct payment to Federated Finance. (The address is available from your Human Resources representative). Your health care coverage may end if your premium payment is more than 30 days late. If your payment is more than 30 days late, we will send you a letter to this effect. If we do not receive your co-payment within 15 days of that letter, your coverage will end. If you elect not to return to work for at least 30 calendar days at the end of the leave period, you will be required to reimburse the Company for the cost of the health benefit premiums paid by the Company for maintaining coverage during your unpaid leave, unless you cannot return to work because of a serious health condition of you or a family member or other circumstances beyond your control.
7. Exemptionj o r J i i g h l y J ^
Highly-compensated employees (i.e., the highest paid 10% of salaried employees within 75 miles of the employee's worksite) may not be returned to their former or equivalent position following a leave if restoration of employment will cause substantial and grievous economic injury to the Company. The Company on a case-by-case basis will make this fact-specific determination. The Company will notify you if you qualify as a "highly compensated" employee, if the Company intends to deny reinstatement, and of your rights in such instances.
8.Jotexm&tent_anJJ?^
Leave because of a serious health condition, including pregnancy-related disabilities, may be taken intermittently (in separate blocks of time due to a single health condition) or on a reduced-leave schedule (reducing the usual number of hours you work per workweek or workday) if medically necessary. Employees also may be eligible for intermittent leave for bonding purposes following the birth or placement of a child in increments of two weeks, except for two occasions where the amount of time can be less. If leave is unpaid, the Company will reduce your salary based on the amount of time actually worked. In addition, while you are on an intermittent or reduced leave schedule, the Company may temporarily transfer you to an available alternative position that better accommodates your recurring leave and has equivalent pay and benefits.
9. Retuj:nirig_from_Leaye
If you take leave because of your own serious health condition, (except if you are taking intermittent leave) you will be required to provide medical certification that you are fit to resume work. Employees failing to provide a required Return to Work Medical Certification will not be permitted to resume work
Page 80 of 94
until it is provided. Under most circumstances, an employee who returns from Family and Medical Leave will be reinstated to his or her original job or to an equivalent job with equivalent pay, benefits, and other employment terms and conditions. However, an employee has no greater right to reinstatement than if she or he had been continuously employed rather than on leave. In addition, employees who do not return to work are not entitled to an accrual of seniority or employment benefits that may have occurred during a leave period.
10. Extended_LeaveJjor_Serio_us_HealthjC.ondU
Leave taken because of your own serious health condition may be extended where it appears an extension will allow you to return to work in the readily and foreseeable future and perform your essential job functions with or without reasonable accommodation. Such extended leave is based on: (1) written request to the Company; (2) medical certification that the serious health condition has continued and an extension of leave will allow you to return to work in the readily foreseeable future and perform your essential job functions with or without reasonable accommodation; and (3) approval by the Company. If you do not return to work on the originally scheduled date or if you do not request in advance an extension of the agreed-upon leave, providing appropriate documentation, you will be deemed to have voluntarily resigned your job. If you request an extension of your leave beyond the initial 12-week period, submit the request and supporting documents before your original leave expires. In addition, you must provide an updated medical certification each month that the leave is extended. Reinstatement is not guaranteed on an extended leave and depends on Company needs.
1 1 . No_VVork_While_on_Leay.e
Working a non-Company job inconsistent with the restrictions provided by your health care provider while on Family and Medical Leave or any other authorized leave of absence is considered a voluntary resignation. Unless on intermittent leave, you may not perform any work for the Company during the time period your health care provider certifies you are disabled from work.
CALIFORNIA PREGNANCY DISABILITY LEAVE
If you are disabled by pregnancy, childbirth or related medical conditions, you are eligible to take a pregnancy disability leave ("PDL"). If you are affected by pregnancy or a related medical condition, you are also eligible to transfer to a less strenuous or hazardous position or to less strenuous or hazardous duties, if such a transfer is medically advisable and can be reasonably accommodated. In addition, if it is medically advisable for you to take intermittent leave or work a reduced leave schedule, the Company may require you to transfer temporarily to an alternative position with equivalent pay and benefits that can better accommodate recurring periods of leave. The PDL is for any period(s) of actual disability caused by your pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical condition up to four months (or 88 workdays
Page 81 of 94
for a full-time employee) per pregnancy. The PDL does not need to be taken in one continuous period of time, but can be taken on an as-needed basis. Time off needed for prenatal care, severe morning sickness, doctor-ordered bed rest, childbirth, and recovery from childbirth is covered by your PDL. Generally, we treat your pregnancy disability the same as we treat other disabilities of similarlysituated employees.
You are required to obtain a certification from your health care provider of your pregnancy disability or the medical advisability of a transfer. The certification should include: the date on which you became disabled due to pregnancy or the date of the medical advisability of a transfer; the probable duration of the period(s) of disability or the period(s) for the advisability of a transfer; and, a statement that, due to the disability, you are either unable to work at all or to perform any one or more of the essential functions of your position without undue risk to yourself or to other persons; or a statement that, due to your pregnancy, a transfer to a less strenuous or hazardous position or duties is medically advisable. As a condition of your return from PDL, or transfer, the Company requires you to obtain a release to return to work from your health care provider stating that you are able to resume your original job duties.
At your option, you can use your unused vacation accrual for the year as part of your PDL before taking the remainder of your leave on an unpaid basis. Macy's Disability leave runs concurrently with PDL. The substitution of any paid leave will not extend the duration of your PDL. If you do not return to work on the originally scheduled return date or request in advance an extension of the agreed upon leave with an appropriate medical certification, you will be deemed to have voluntarily resigned your employment with the Company. Failure to notify the Company of your ability to return to work when it occurs, or your continued absence from work because your leave must extend beyond the maximum time allowed, may be deemed a voluntary resignation of your employment with the Company, unless you are entitled to Family and Medical Leave. Upon your return from PDL, you will be reinstated to your same position in most instances. Taking a PDL may affect certain of your benefits. If you want more information regarding our eligibility for a leave and the impact of the leave on your benefits, please contact your Human Resource representative. Please refer to the "Family and Medical Leave" policy in this Handbook for additional information. If you remain disabled after you have exhausted PDL benefits, you may be eligible for additional leave under other laws and/or Company policy. See Human Resources.
CALIFORNIA FAMILY RIGHTS ACT ("CFRA")
The following notice reviews in detail the California Family Rights Act:
THE LEAVE POLICY
Under the CFRA, you are eligible to take up to 12 weeks of unpaid Family and Medical
http://macys.loca! 101 xom/contract.htm
Page 82 of 94
Leave within any 12-month period and be restored to the same or a comparable position upon your return from leave provided: (1) you have worked for the Company for at least 12 months, and for at least 1250 hours in the last 12 months; and (2) are employed at a worksite that has 50 or more employees within a 75 mile radius. The 12-month period in which you may take 12 weeks of leave will be measured as a "rolling" 12-month period dating back from the time you request leave to begin.
REASON FOR LEAVE
You may take leave under the CFRA policy for any of the following reasons: (1) the birth of a child and to care for such child; (2) the placement of a child with you for adoption or foster care and to care for such child; (3) to care for a spouse, child, or parent ("family member") with a serious health condition; or (4) because of your own serious health condition which makes you unable to perform an essential function of your job. Leave for reasons (1) or (2) must be completed within the 12-month period beginning on the child's date of birth, adoption, or placement. If both spouses are employed by the Company and they request leave because of reasons (1) or (2), they may only take a combined total of 12 weeks leave for such purposes during any 12-month period.
NOTICE OF LEAVE
If your need for leave is foreseeable, you must give the Company at least 30 days prior notice of the need for leave, preferably written. If this is not possible, you must at least give notice as soon as practicable (generally within one to two business days of learning of your need for leave). Failure to provide such notice may be grounds for delay of leave. Additionally, if you are planning a medical treatment, you must consult with the Company first regarding the dates of such treatment. Where the need for leave is not foreseeable, you should notify the Company as soon as possible and practical.
MEDICAL CERTIFICATION
If you are requesting leave because of your own or a covered family member's serious
--
Leave is Partially Paid
You may be eligible to receive under the Paid Family Care Leave Act, up to 6 weeks partially paid leave under Family Temporary Disability Insurance, and you may also be eligible for short or longterm disability payments and/or workers' compensation benefits. Those plans are described in the benefit information brochure, "Macy's More You". If you request leave because of a birth, adoption, or foster care placement of a child, your unused vacation accrual and any paid time off will first be substituted for unpaid leave. If you request leave for a pregnancy related disability, or any disability for your own serious health condition, you may use your unused vacation accrual if you desire. However, if you request leave because of your own serious health condition, your leave will run concurrently with other Company provided leave, except where leave is provided to California employees for pregnancy disability. The
substitution of paid leave time for unpaid leave time does not extend the 12-week leave period. In no case may the substitution of paid leave time for unpaid leave time result in you receiving more than 100% of your salary.
MEDICAL AND OTHER BENEFITS
For the first 12 weeks of an approved Family and Medical Leave, the Company will maintain your health benefits as if you continued to be actively employed. If you take a leave for disability caused by pregnancy, childbirth, or a related medical condition and follow that leave with a leave to care for your newborn child, your leave may exceed 12 weeks, but the Company will only pay the company
Page 84 of 94
contribution for medical benefits for the first 12 weeks you are on leave. If paid leave is substituted for unpaid leave, the Company will deduct your portion of the health plan premium as a regular payroll deduction. If your leave is unpaid, you must pay your portion of the premium through direct payment to Federated Finance. The address is available from your Human Resources representative, who also will provide you with a schedule of payments. Your health care coverage may end if your premium payment is more than 30 days late. If your payment is more than 30 days late, we will send you a letter to this effect. If we do not receive your co-payment within 15 days of that letter, your coverage will end. If you elect not to return to work for at least 30 calendar days at the end of the leave period, you will be required to reimburse the Company for the cost of the health benefit premiums paid by the Company to maintain coverage during your unpaid leave, unless you cannot return to work because of a serious health condition of you or a family member or other circumstances beyond your control.
EXEMPTION FOR HIGHLY COMPENSATED EMPLOYEES
INTERMITTENT AND REDUCED SCHEDULE LEAVE
RETURNING FROM LEAVE
If you take leave because of your own serious health condition, (except if you are taking intermittent leave) you may be required to provide medical certification that you are fit to resume work. Employees failing to provide a required Return to Work Medical Certification will not be permitted to resume work until it is provided.
Page 85 of 94
Under most circumstances, an employee who returns from CFRA will be reinstated to his or her original job or to an equivalent job with equivalent pay, benefits, and other employment terms and conditions. However, an employee has no greater right to reinstatement than if she or he had been continuously employed rather than on leave. In addition, employees who do not return to work generally are not entitled to an accrual of seniority or employment benefits that may have occurred during a leave period.
EXTENDED LEAVE FOR SERIOUS HEALTH CONDITIONS
Leave taken because of your own serious health condition may be extended where it
appears an extension will allow you to return to work in the readily and foreseeable future and perform your essential job functions with or without reasonable accommodation. Such extended leave is based on: (1) written request to the Company; (2) medical certification that the serious health condition has continued and an extension of leave will allow you to return to work in the readily foreseeable future and perform your essential job functions with or without reasonable accommodation; and (3) approval by the Company. If you do not return to work on the originally scheduled date or if you do not request in advance an extension of the agreed-upon leave, providing appropriate documentation, you will be deemed to have voluntarily resigned your job. If you request an extension of your leave beyond the initial 12-week period, submit the request and supporting documents before your
original leave expires. In addition, you must provide an updated medical certification each month that the leave is extended. Reinstatement is not guaranteed on an extended leave and depends on Company needs.
APPENDIX E
--
17 GENERAL WORKING CONDITIONS 18 ASSIGNMENT OF WORK 19 MEETINGS 20 CONTRIBUTIONS TO CHARITY 21 RECORD OF COMPENSATION 22 FIDELITY BOND PREMIUMS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATIONS 23 USE OF AUTOMOBILE 24 DEMONSTRATORS, LEASED AND SUB-LEASED DEPARTMENTS 25 DISCOUNTS 26 EXECUTIVE SELLING ACTIVITIES AND WORK ACTIVITIES 27 SELLING SUPERVISORS AND WORKING SUPERVISORS 28 HEALTH AND LIFE INSURANCE PLAN 29 SICKNESS PAY BENEFITS 30 PENSION 31 PROCESSING OF COMPUINTS AND DISPUTES
Page 93 of 94 1/31/2005
32 NO STRIKE-NO LOCK OUT 33 WAGE RATES AND JOB CLASSIFICATIONS 34 SEPARABILITY 35 TRANSFER AND REMOVAL OF WORK 36 LABOR MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE 37 TERM OF AGREEMENT APPENDIX "A" APPENDIX "B" APPENDIX " C " APPENDIX " D " APPENDIX " E "
Page 94 of 94
_1
Home | Calendar | Contract I Your Rights I Workers Comp Info I Get Involved I Political Action | Register To Vote I Negotiations 04 | Links | Archive | Contact Us | Search
Copyright unions.com For problems or questions regarding this web contact w.ebmaster@unions.com.
Last updated: 01/07/05.

Binary file (standard input) matches
