=== HEALTHCARE EXTRACTION: CBA_04 ===
Source: C:/Users/zachary.parolin/INETInequality Dropbox/INET Inequality Team/Projects/LLMs & Inequality/1_CBAs/Cornell Archive/Cornell-DoL/7423ABBYY.pdf
Total document lines: 5578
Extracted healthcare lines: 1191
===========================================

SUBJECT

1 Recognition 2 Definitions 3 Responsibility of Management 4 Grievance Procedure 5 Accredited Service 6 Wages, Hours, and Overtime 7 Scheduling of Time 8 Job Bidding 9 Force Adjustment and Recall After Layoff 10 Holidays 11 Vacations 12 Short Term Disability 13 Leave or Excused Absence 14 Group Health Insurance Benefits 15 Furnishing of Tools - Work Gloves 16 Concession Telephone Service 17 Payroll Deduction of Union Dues or Services Fees 18 Conflict with Law 19 Union Obligations 20 Company Obligations 21 Mutual Obligations 22 Duration of Agreement
Exhibit A - Wage Schedule Administration Exhibit B - Job Classification Wage Progression Schedule Exhibit C - Dues Deduction Authorization
PAGE
1 3 5 6 8 11 13 17 19 25 27 30 32 36 38 39 39 42 42 43 43 45 46 48 49-54 55
[
TABLE OF CONTENTS
SUBJECT MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENTS:
Adoption Assistance Commercial Driver License (CDL) Compensated Availability Contingent Employment Cope Deduction Customer Engineer-Data Applications Day-At-A-Time Vacation Dispatch Clerk Differential Domestic Partner Benefits Drug and Alcohol Policy Education and Life-Long Learning Enhanced Vacation Equipment Installer Assistant Family and Medical Leaves of Absence (FMLA) Flex Time Flexible Reimbursement Plan (FRP) Grandfathering of Minerva Employees - Letter of intent Grievance Mediation GTE Hourly Savings Plan Home Dispatch Hourly Savings Plan (HSP) Inclement Weather - Letter of Intent Income Security Plan (ISP) Income Security Plan (ISP) - Enhanced Living Benefit Rider (LBR) Long-Term Disability (LTD) Lump Sum Payment Option Mail Order Prescription Plan (MOPP) Network Assistant Neutrality and Consent Election Order Clerk Differential Payment of Arbitrator Pensions Pension Plan Survivor Benefits Performance Differential Personal Lines of Insurance Point of Service Medical Plan (POS) Prescription Identification Card (PIC) Procedure to Adjust Amount of Union Dues/Services Fees Public Communications Incentive Compensation Plan Retail Sales Consultant Compensation Plan Retiree Life Insurance Revised Titles/Force Adjustment Team Performance Award
II
57 59 60 62 64 66 68 70 71 75 78 80 81 83 86 87 88 91 92 94 95 96 97 100 104 106 110 112 114 116 123 124 125 127 129 131 133 139 141 142 147 149 150 151
SUBJECT MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENTS:
Ten-Hour, Four-Day Week Vacation Donation Vision Plan Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association (VEBA) Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absence (VLLOA) Voluntary Part-Time Assignment (VPTA)
156 158 160 164 168 170
iii
INDEX TO AGREEMENT
ARTICLE SECTION PAGE
Accident Benefits Accredited Service Accredited Service (Definition) Adoption Assistance Alcohol & Drug Policy
12
12.3
30
5
8
2
2.11
4
Memo
57
75
Basic Wage Rate (Definition) Bridging Service Bumping Rights
--
66
Definitions Dental Insurance Benefits Departments (Definitions) Discharged (Definitions) Dispatch Clerk Differential Domestic Partner Benefits Drug & Alcohol Policy Dues Deduction Authorization Duration of Agreement
3
14
14.4
37
2.10
2 . 2.17
70
71
Exhibit C
55
22
45
--
SUBJECT
Grievance Mediation Grievance Procedure Group Health Insurance Benefits GTE Hourly Savings Plan
Health Insurance Benefits Holiday (Definition) Holidays Holiday Treatment (Work Performed) Home Dispatch Hourly Savings Plan (HSP)
Inclement Weather Inclement Weather Income Security Plan (ISP) Income Security Plan (ISP) - Enhanced
Job Bidding Job Classifications Jury Duty
Laid-Off (Definition) Lay-Off Lay-Off (Termination Pay) Leaves of Absence (Family & Medical) Leave of Absence (Formal) Leave of Absence (Informal) Leave of Absence (Military) Leave of Absence (Negotiations) Leave of Absence (Union Business) Living Benefit Rider (LBR) Long-Term Disability (LTD) Lump Sum Payment Option
Mail Order Prescription Plan (MOPP) MetPay Program Mutual Obligations
Network Assistant Neutrality and Consent Election Night Premium
Occasional Employee (Definition) Order Clerk Differential Out of Classification Pay Overtime (Definition) Overtime Availability List
91
6
36
92
14 2 10 10 Memo Memo
2.19
25
10.4
27
94
--
Overtime Work
Part-Time Employee (Definition) Payment of Arbitrator Pensions Pension Plan Survivor Benefits Per Diem Performance Differential Personal Days Personal Lines of insurance Point of Service Medical Plan (POS) Posted Work Schedules Premium Pay (Definition) Prescription Identification Card (PIC) Probationary Employee (Definition) Public Communications Incentive
Compensation Plan
Recall from Lay-off Recognition Regular Employee (Definition) Released (Definition) Relief Periods Resigned (Definition) Responsibility of Management Retail Sales Consultant Compensation Plan Retiree Life Insurance Revised Titles/Force Adjustment
Scheduling of Time Seniority (Definition) Service Day (Definition) Service Week (Definition) Short Term Disability Summary-Point of Service Medical Plan Suspension (Definition)
Team Performance Award (TPA) Temporary Employee (Definition) Temporary Work Out of Class Ten-Hour, Four-Day Week Tools
Union Dues & Service Fees Union Dues/Service Fee Adjustment Union Obligations Union Security
11
.2.6
124
125
127
7
7.12
15
129
10
10.1.1
--
Vacation Vacation (Day-at-a-Time) Vacation Donation Vacation (Eligibility) Vacation (Enhanced) Vacation (Recall from Lay-Off) Vacation Scheduling Vacation (Separations) Vision Plan Vision Plan Highlights Voluntary Employee Beneficiary
Association (VEBA) Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absence (VLLOA) Voluntary Part-Time Assignment (VPTA)
Wage Progression Wage Progression Schedules Wage Schedule Administration
11 Memo Memo
11 Memo
11 11 11 Memo
Memo Memo Memo
Exhibit A
11.1 11.2 11.2.b 11.4 11.2.5
6.7
27 68 158 28 80 28 28 28 160 162
164 168 170
12 49-54
46
VII
THIS AGREEMENT, made as of October 27, 2002 by and between VERIZON NORTH INC. (NORTH CENTRAL REGION) (successor to General Telephone Company of Ohio), a Wisconsin Corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Company" and Local Union No. 986, of the INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, hereinafter referred to as the "Union".
WITNESSETH THAT:
ARTICLE 1
RECOGNITION
SECTION 1.1. It is recognized that the Company and the Union have a common and sympathetic interest in harmonious working relations and the adjustment of differences by rational and common sense methods to the end that the Company, the Union and the General Public may be benefited.
SECTION 1.1.1. The Company and the Union reaffirm the policy of nondiscrimination because of race, creed, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap status, disabled veteran status, age, and veteran of the Vietnam Era.
SECTION 1.2. The Company and the Union hereby agree, for purposes of this Labor Agreement, the employees in the following listed exchanges and the geographic area served by them as of the date of this Agreement are subject only to this Labor Agreement:
Ashland, Ashland South, Ashley, Attica, Bellevue, Berlin Heights, Bowling Green, Brewster, Brunswick, Burbank, Carey, Carrollton, Catawba Island, Chatham, Clyde, Congress, Crestline, Creston, Curtice-Oregon, Delaware, Elmore, Gallon, Genoa, Grafton, Grand Rapids, Greenwich, Haskins-Tontogany, Hayesville, Homerville, Huron, Kelleys Island, Kilbourne, Lakevilie, Lewis Center-Cheshire, Lodi, Loudonville, Marblehead, McComb, Medina, Milan, Minerva and Strasburg Exhanges of the Minerva Operating District of the Company (Amsterdam, Bergholtz, Harlem Springs, Knoxville, Mechanicstown, Richmond, Dellroy, East Rochester, Hanoverton, Malvern, North Georgetown, Paris and Winona), Monroeville, Montrose, New London, New Washington, North Baltimore, North Eaton, Norwalk, Oak Harbor, Oberlin, Ostrander, Pemberville, Perrysville, Plymouth, Polk, Port Clinton, Put-In-Bay, Radnor, Rathbone, Red Haw, Savannah, Seville, Sharon Center, Spencer, Valley City, Van Buren, Wadsworth, Wakeman, Wayne-Bradner, Wellington, Westfield Center, West Salem, Weston, Willard, Port Clinton West including any and all rearrangements or regroupings and ^designations of these switching areas.
SECTION 1.2.2. The Union hereby certifying that a majority of the employees in the Service, Engineering and Construction, Supply and
1
Transportation Department regularly scheduled for more than 85 hours of work per month in the following classifications including but not limited to:
(a)
Lineworkers, Equipment Operators, Senior Lineworkers,
Construction Cable Splicers, Storekeepers, Business Zone
Technicians, Business Services Technicians, Frameworkers,
Central Office Installer-Repairers, Test Desk Operators, Facility
Locator-Assigners, Storeroom Attendants, Mechanic's Helpers,
Customer Zone Technicians I, Customer Zone Technicians II,
Customer Zone Technicians IN, Vehicle Maintenance
Technicians, Fleet Mechanics, Customer Engineer-Data
Applications.
(b)
But excluding all draftpersons, engineers, service observers,
confidential employees, professional employees, guards and
supervisors as defined by the Act.
have designated the Union as their collective bargaining representative, the Company hereby recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent, for the purpose of collective bargaining in respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of employment and all other conditions of employment for such employees of the Company at the above listed exchanges.
SECTION 1.2.3. As to the Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) and IBEWBargaining Unit the Company hereby recognizes the Union in accordance with certification of representative 8-RC-7220 as the exclusive bargaining agent for the purpose of collective bargaining in respect to rates of pay, hours of employment, and all other conditions of employment for the following employees of the Company at the exchanges listed above:
(a) All clerical and house service employees regularly scheduled for more than 85 hours of work per month of the employer as follows but not limited to: Custodians, Building Technicians, General Utility Workers, Service Representatives, Dispatch Clerks, Assignment Clerks, Line and Cable Assigners, Clerks, ClerkTypists, Statistical Clerks, Collector Maintainers, Public Access Sales Technicians, Traffic Records Clerks, Retail Sales Consultants, Customer Services Clerks (except those Customer Services Clerks working in Minerva).
--
As used in this Contract, the following terms shall have the following meaning:
SECTION 2.1. "Employee(s)", excepting as otherwise specifically provided in the Contract in Article 1, Section 1.2, shall mean all employees of the Company except confidential employees, and except professional employees and supervisors as defined in the Labor-Management Relations Act of 1947.
The term "Employee" or "Employees" wherever used in this Agreement shall include both sexes except as otherwise may be specifically provided herein. Whenever the masculine or feminine "pronoun" or "possessive" is used in this Agreement, the opposite pronoun or possessive is also intended, except as otherwise may be specifically provided herein.
SECTION 2.2. A "regular employee" is an employee regularly scheduled for more than 85 hours of work per month and whose employment has been accepted by the Company and has continued for longer than ninety (90) days. Regular employees are further classified as "full-time" or "part-time" employees.
SECTION 2.3.1. A "probationary employee" is an employee, other than an occasional employee or temporary employee, regularly scheduled for more than 85 hours of work per month, whose employment has not continued for as much as ninety (90) days. The exception to this would be if the Company and Union mutually agree to extend the probationary period an additional ninety (90) days. Probationary employees are further classified as "full-time" or "part-time" employees.
SECTION 2.3.2. A "temporary employee" is an employee who is engaged for a period of time intended and expected to be of limited duration. Such employment period will not exceed twelve (12) months unless otherwise extended by mutual agreement. Temporary employees are not eligible to any benefits in this Agreement unless specifically set forth as applicable to temporary employees. Temporary full-time employees with ninety (90) days of continuous unbroken employment shall not be required to serve a probationary period if hired as a regular full-time employee in the same job classification unless mutually agreed
by the Company and the Union to extend the probationary period an additional ninety (90) days. Such regular full-time employee shall be eligible for holiday allowance in accordance with Article 10.
SECTION 2.4. An "occasional employee" is a person who is engaged from time to time for a period intended and expected to be of limited duration. Uses of occasional employees shall include: emergencies, the filling of temporary tours, or substitution for other employees who are absent, ill or on vacation or on excused absence. Occasional employees are employees only on the specific individual days on which work assignments are performed. Wage treatment shall not exceed wage schedules effective for regular employees and may be based on cumulative previous hours worked for the Company.
SECTION 2.5. A "full-time employee" is a regular or temporary employee who is normally scheduled to work a forty-hour work week.
SECTION 2.6. A "part-time" employee is a regular or temporary employee who is normally scheduled to work less than a forty-hour work week.
SECTION 2.7. The "basic wage rate" of an employee is the rate paid pursuant to Exhibit B, exclusive of any additional pay for (a) night differentials, (b) overtime, (c) holidays, (d) work on Sundays, and (e) work outside of scheduled time.
SECTION 2.8. "Overtime" is that period of time which is worked in excess of 40 hours in a week, or in excess of eight hours in a day. Hours worked consecutively in excess of eight shall be overtime.
SECTION 2.9. "Premium pay" is an amount paid in addition to basic wage rate.
SECTION 2.10. "Departments" are divisions of the Company's employees for the purposes of administering this Contract. The departments are Service, Engineering and Construction, Supply and Transportation,'Traffic, and Accounting.
SECTION 2.11. "Accredited Service" is service with the Company as defined in Article 5.
SECTION 2.12. "Seniority" is accredited service as is further defined in Article 5.
SECTION 2.13. "Grievance" means any dispute between the Company and an employee or the Union involving the interpretation or application of any provision of this Agreement.
SECTION 2.14. "Resigned", or "Quit" applies when an employee's services are terminated of his/her own volition prior to retirement.
SECTION 2.15. "Laid-Off" applies when an employee's services are terminated as a result of a reduction in force.
SECTION 2.16. "Suspension" applies when an employee's services are terminated for a temporary period as a result of disciplinary action.
SECTION 2.17. "Discharged" applies when an employee's services are terminated because they are not satisfactory, or for other just cause..
SECTION 2.18. "Released" refers to termination of employment by Company action when the employee's qualifications for telephone work are not satisfactory.
SECTION 2.19. "Holiday" is any of the days prescribed in Article 10, and means the twenty-four hour period between 12:01 A.M. of the calendar holiday, or the day thus observed, and 12:00 midnight.
SECTION 2.20. "Calendar Year" means a period of 12 months beginning on January 1st and ending on the next succeeding December 31st.
SECTION 2.21. A "Service Week" is a period of seven consecutive days beginning and ending at 12:01 A.M. on successive Sundays.
SECTION 2.22. A "Service Day" is a period of 24 hours beginning and ending at 12:01 A.M. on successive days.
SECTION 2.23. For scheduling purposes only, a formal tour of duty as described herein shall be considered as falling on the calendar day in which the majority of hours are worked.
(a) A scheduled tour of duty shall consist of not more than 8 consecutive hours exclusive of a meal period. Meal periods of less that 1/2 hour shall be included as part of the tour.
ARTICLE 3
RESPONSIBILITY OF MANAGEMENT
SECTION 3.1. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be deemed to limit the Company in any way in the exercise of the regular generally recognized customary functions and responsibilities of Management of the business and direction of the working force consistent with safe working practices including the right to hire, to use improved methods or equipment, to combine jobs, to discontinue jobs, to determine work assignments and tours, to decide the number of employees needed at any particular time or place, to establish reasonable rules and regulations, to discipline and discharge employees for cause and to be the sole judge of the communications service rendered the public. Moreover, such functions of Management as may be included herein shall not be deemed to limit other functions of Management not specifically included herein.
SECTION 3.2. The right of the Company to establish, determine and maintain standards of telephone service to the public is fully recognized. The Company shall not be required to retain in its employ any employee who fails continuously
to meet established work standards unless such failure arises from causes due to working conditions beyond the employee's control. The Company recognizes the obligation to treat employees with fairness and justice; however, if an employee repeatedly refuses to meet established work standards he may be disciplined or discharged.
ARTICLE 4
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
SECTION 4.1. For the purpose of this Article 4, a grievance shall beany dispute between the Company and any employee or the Union, involving the interpretation or application of any provision of this Agreement.
SECTION 4.1.1. Such disputes raised by an employee, employees, or the Union may be presented to Management orally or in writing on forms provided by the Union. Names, dates, times, events and other pertinent data necessary for the adequate consideration of the grievance should be stated. Contract provisions allegedly violated should be cited. The nature of the grievance and the remedy sought should be indicated. Technical errors on the grievance form shall not become grounds for denying the grievance.
--
areas of the Company shall not be employed to an extent so as to adversely affect the usual straight-time employment of current regular full time employees. Work done by contractors and employees temporarily assigned from other areas of the Company shall in no way result in the lay off, part timing, or demotion of any employee qualified to perform the work being done. When scheduled overtime work being done by contractors is authorized and controlled by the Company equal opportunity for such overtime work shall be afforded those Company employees normally doing the same type of work within the same exchange.
SECTION 6.4. All hours worked on Sundays will be paid at a premium rate of 1/2 the basic straight time rate. All hours worked on Sunday up to a maximum of eight (8) or ten (10) hours shall be included in computing the number of hours in excess of forty hours in any work week. Scheduled or required hours worked in excess of eight (8) or ten (10) hours on Sundays shall be entitled to both Sunday premium and overtime premium.
SECTION 6.5. in event a full time employee shall be called for work outside of regular working hours, after having left for the day, the employee shall be paid overtime computed from the time the employee leaves home until returning home: allowing a reasonable time for travel to and from the job. The'minimum compensation shall be two hours at the overtime rate on a weekday.
(a) If an employee accepts a call out, the employee will be excused from required overtime once within the next seven "(7) scheduled work days, if requested, by scheduling with their supervisor an eight hour scheduled day (10 hour scheduled day for employees on 4/10s).
(b) If an employee is called out and works 4 hours after midnight, and such call out results in the employee being unable to obtain sufficient rest prior to the start of their next regular scheduled tour, the employee shallbe given the option of (a) above or shall be excused from the first half of their scheduled tour without pay. This excused time shall not result in any violation of any terms of this Agreement, including attendance.
SECTION 6.6. A night premium of eighty-five cents ($.85) per hour will be paid for regularly scheduled hours worked between the hours of 9 p.m. and 6 a.m. (Does not apply to overtime hours worked.)
SECTION 6.7. Wage rate progression in each separate classification shall be based on progression interval in each classification. Notwithstanding, any employee, who transfers to a higher rated classification, shall have their hourly rate changed pursuant to "Wage Schedule Administration Exhibit A" attached hereto. Such employee will serve a probationary period not to exceed 180 calendar days. At the end of that time the employee shall be assigned the higher classification or be transferred back to their previous classification. In no case shall the hourly rate of pay of an employee who is transferred to a higher job classification be decreased, except for reasons of being transferred back to their previous classification in accordance with this Section 6.7.
SECTION 6.8. In event an employee shall be assigned to work temporarily on a job paying a lesser wage than their regular job, they shall not be reduced in wages as a result of any such temporary work. If, however, an employee shall be assigned to work temporarily on a job of a higher classification, and not for the purposes of Section 6.8, they shall receive the differential in pay, as defined in Exhibit A, Wage Schedule Administration, Section B, applicable to the work classification.
SECTION 6.9. Any employee who at their own request is assigned to a job classification which carries a lower rate of pay per hour shall be paid the rate per hour for the classification of work performed but without loss in accredited service.
SECTION 6.10. Any employee who is determined by Management to be unable to perform the work for the job classification to which they are assigned, may be transferred to a lower job classification by the Company and paid the rate for such classification. If the employee so transferred is not in agreement with the new classification and rate of pay assigned, they may take the matter up under the provisions of Article 4.
SECTION 6.11. A new employee with previous experience may be employed, classified and an hourly rate of pay determined by Management not in excess of the hourly rate justified by actual experience. At the end of 180 calendar days the new employee or the employee in progression may be reclassified and/or rerated based on demonstrated experience and ability, however in no instance will the merit increase be more than one progression interval in one calendar year. Subsequent progression increases will proceed from the effective date of the previous wage increase.
ARTICLE 7
SCHEDULING OF TIME
SECTION 7.1. AH employees shall have successfully completed their physical examination by a Company approved physician prior to the time of beginning of their employment, or returning from an absence of more than three months.
SECTION 7.2. All regular scheduled tours shall be assigned by seniority in accordance with the employees* written selection. Approval of tour selections will be contingent upon consideration of work load, requirements of telephone service and requirements of law. Work group schedules will be posted every four weeks. Employees of each work group shall be afforded opportunity to express their choice of tour changes in the week preceding the schedule posting.
SECTION 7.3. Employees may trade scheduled work hours with the approval of the supervisor. Approval will be contingent upon considerations of work load, service requirements, and requirement of law. Ordinarily approval will be denied if overtime results from the trade.
13
SECTION 7.4. Work schedules shall be posted in appropriate locations no later than noon Thursday of the preceding week. When hours of scheduled work remain the same from week to week a single posting shall be sufficient, except as provided for in Article 7, Section 7.2. Holiday schedules shall be posted at least fourteen (14) days before such holiday.
SECTION 7.5. Posted work schedules are subject to change for reasons beyond the control of the Company.
When twenty-four hours or more notice before the start of work on the original daily tour is given, the changed tour shall become the employee's regular scheduled tour and he/she shall be compensated at the basic wage rate plus applicable premiums. When less than twenty-four (24) hours notice before the start of work on the original daily tour is given the following shall apply:
(a) Straight-time compensation will be paid for all hours worked within the original tour. Overtime compensation will be paid for all hours worked outside of the original tour.
SECTION 7.5.1. When two (2) or more tours on a posted weekly work schedule are changed, due to Company requirements, a minimum of three (3) days notice shall be given the affected employee. When circumstance does not allow for such notice, overtime compensation will be paid for those hours worked outside the original tours by the affected employee during the succeeding three (3) calendar days following notice.
SECTION 7.6. A relief period of 15 minutes paid for as time worked will be granted to each employee as near the middle of each session of a tour as is practical.
SECTION 7.6.1. Employees required to work two (2) hours or more immediately preceding or following the originally scheduled tour shall receive a fifteen (15) minute relief period as near each two hour interval as is practical if the employee resumes work after each said relief period.
SECTION 7.7. Each employee who is regularly scheduled and who is unable, because of sickness, injury, emergency, or conditions beyond the employee's control, to work the hours so scheduled, shall give their Supervisor or office the maximum amount of notice possible prior to the beginning of their scheduled tour. Failure to give such notice shall constitute reason for appropriate disciplinary action by the Company.
SECTION 7.8. To indicate availability, regular employees who desire overtime/call out work shall sign an Availability List which will be maintained in their department. The Company shall not be required to call employees for such work if they have not signed this list, or have failed to accept such work when
offered on three (3) consecutive occasions. Employees must notify their supervisor in writing to have their name added to or removed from the Availability List. An employee will not be added to the List if their name was removed in the previous thirty (30) days. The Availability List shall be accessible to any employee upon request to their supervisor. Absence of an employee's name from the Availability List does not relieve the employee of the responsibility to work overtime/call out.
SECTION 7.9. The Company will endeavor to distribute as equally as is reasonably possible with due regard to Section 7.8, within each reporting center, all overtime work among employees classified to do the work required.
SECTION 7.10. No employee shall be required to take time off for work performed outside regular scheduled working hours.
SECTION 7.11. The Company will not require Service, Engineering and Construction, Supply and Transportation (Formerly Plant) Department employees to do construction or maintenance work in exposed locations out-of-doors during heavy rain, wet snow, or excessively cold weather, as will interfere with the safe performance of work by outside employees; unless such work is necessary to protect life, property or continuity of essential service. When scheduled work is suspended, other suitable work will be assigned.
Once all suitable work is exhausted and there is an agreement between the affected employee(s) and their supervisor that work is impractical due to inclement weather, the following payments will apply.
(a) If the agreement is made prior to and/or within the first 30 minutes of the tour, the employee will be released and be paid a maximum of two (2) hours 'show-up pay' at the basic wage rate.
(b) If the agreement is made within the first half of the tour, the released employee will receive a maximum of four (4) hours pay which includes any productive time at the basic wage rate (5 hours if employee working 4/10s).
(c) If the agreement is made after the completion of the first half of the tour, the released employee will receive a maximum of eight (8) hours pay which includes any productive time at the basic wage rate. (10 hours if employee working 4/10s)
SECTION 7.12. Per Diem. All employees shall be assigned to definite reporting centers. Per diem payment is in lieu of all other employee expenses unless otherwise specified herein.
SECTION 7.12.1. When an employee is assigned to work temporarily at a location ten (10) miles or more from his/her regular reporting center, the following will apply:
SECTION 7.12.1.1. If the temporary reporting center is closer to the employee's home than his/her regular reporting center, the employee will not be paid per diem or mileage. This section 7.12.1.1 does not apply to employees required to travel to their regular reporting center prior to reporting to their temporary reporting center.
SECTION 7.12.1.2. If the temporary reporting center is ten (10) miles and up to and including twenty (20) miles the employee will be compensated $11.00 per day for each working day of the assignment.
SECTION 7.12.1.3. If the Temporary reporting center is more than twenty (20) miles and up to and including forty (40) miles the employee will be compensated $21.50 per day for each working day of the assignment.
SECTION 7.12.1.4. If the Temporary reporting center is more than forty (40) miles and up to and including sixty (60) miles, the employee will be compensated $36.00 per day for each working day of the assignment.
SECTION 7.12.1.5. If the Temporary reporting center is more than sixty (60) miles away from the regular reporting center, the Company shall select and pay for lodging at the employee's request. The employee will be compensated a meal allowance of $34.00 per day for each working day of the assignment. Management will provide transportation, on Company time, on the initial Trip to and the last trip from the temporary reporting center, at its option, in the form of a Company vehicle, public transportation or a mileage allowance consistent with Company policy, but no less than $.31 per mile, when the employee's personal vehicle is authorized for Company business. When the employee's personal vehicle is used, the employee will be compensated a mileage allowance for round trip transportation on each interim weekend of the assignment.
SECTION 7.12.1.6. If the temporary work assignment is more than sixty (60) miles and is outside the state of Ohio, reasonable board and lodging with supervisory approval will be paid for each day of the assignment. The employee shall have the option to turn in receipts for meals or to receive $34.00 per day for each day of the assignment. No other per diem will be paid. Employees on temporary work assignments outside the state will be permitted to return home at the end of each three week period. Approved transportation expenses will be paid by the Company.
SECTION 7.12.1.7. All reference to miles shall mean the most
16
direct and practical one-way highway distance to the temporary reporting center as determined by management.
SECTION 7.12.1.8. For each day that an employee is assigned to a temporary reporting center more than sixty (60) miles from his/her regular reporting center, the employee shall be allowed to charge to the Company one personal long-distance call of a five minute duration, terminating in the state of Ohio. In addition, employees who do not return home on interim weekends will be reimbursed a laundry expense of $8.00 per week starting with the second week of the temporary assignment.
SECTION 7.12.2. Employees utilizing personal vehicles and who qualify for per diem will be paid a mileage allowance consistent with Company policy, but no less than $.31 per mile, for all miles associated with the assignment in excess of the distance between the regular reporting center and the temporary reporting center.
SECTION 7.12.3. Work Time. Employees on per diem will travel on their own time, except as provided in 7.12.1.5, and unless otherwise directed by management to move vehicles and equipment.
SECTION 7.13. Supervisory employees shall not perform work as is normally performed by bargaining unit employees except in cases of emergency conditions affecting service, conditions affecting safety, health or welfare, when instructing, or when an appropriate employee is not available to perform such work.
--
17
(a) When a reapportionment is necessary for business reasons twenty-five (25) miles or less from the employee's current reporting center, notification to the affected employee(s) and Union Business Manager will occur. The Company will share with the Union and the employees the number of employees affected, the effective date (with at least six (6) business days notification) of the transfer and the new reporting center. The Company will first solicit volunteers from the affected surplus work group and if none then Article 9, Section 9.4. will be applicable to the affected employee(s). Should the new reporting center be more than 25 miles from the employee's current reporting center, the Company may first solicit volunteers from the surplus work group to transfer to the new reporting center and if none the Company may effect a force reduction under Article 9.
(b) Nothing herein shall preclude the Company from filling an opening on a temporary basis for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days.
(c) An employee may apply for, but shall not have a right to transfer until the employee has occupied his/her present position at the same location for at least twelve (12) consecutive months. Employees in the Business Zone Technician, Customer Engineer-Data Applications, and/or Division C.O.E. InstallerRepairer classification may apply for but not have a right to transfer until they have occupied their present position for at least twenty-four (24) consecutive months. Employees in the Customer Zone Technician I classification may apply for but not have a right to transfer until they have occupied their present position for at least thirty (30) months. The time limits stated herein may be waived by the Company.
SECTION 8.2 It shall be the employee's responsibility to submit his/her job application in writing (form to be provided by the Company) to the person in staffing designated as the Company representative.
SECTION 8.3. The employee who is the successful candidate shall be notified of his/her selection. The Business Manager shall also be notified of the name of the successful candidate within fourteen (14) days of the selection. The successful candidate shall be notified of his/her release date within fourteen (14) calendar days of being awarded the job. Any increase in compensation shall be effective the first pay period following the acceptance of the job. Reasonable effort will be made to release the employee as expediently as the business allows.
SECTION 8.4 Selection between two or more regular employees or employees on layoff seeking to fill the same job opening shall be based upon the following
18
factors: (a)
Seniority as defined in Article 5.
(b) Ability, aptitude, attendance record, physical fitness, and/or qualifications to perform the job.
(c) If the successful candidate is an employee from layoff and he/she accepts the position, he/she will no longer be eligible for recall or retransferto the position from which he/she was originally laid-off.
Reasonable effort will be made consistent with the requirements of telephone service to train and promote existing employees of the Company. However, this will not take precedence over awarding jobs to laid off employees. When an opening occurs in a job classification that, in the judgment of Management, requires the employment of more experienced personnel than is available within the unit classifications to fill that opening (these jobs will be posted as "Ready Now" vacancies), or if the opening is filled under Article 6, Section 6.10, the Business Manager shall be so advised ten (10) days prior to the filling of the opening.
SECTION 8.5. When effecting reapportionment and increasing or decreasing the number of employees the factors set forth in Section 8.4 (a) shall control.
ARTICLE 9
FORCE ADJUSTMENT AND RECALL AFTER LAYOFF
SECTION 9.1. Whenever conditions are considered by the Company to warrant reduction in forces through lay-off or part-timing of regular employees, the reduction will be in accord with the following:
SECTION 9.1.1. Force adjustment will be by job title classification(s) in each Department affected, and within the exchange, district, area as the case may be. To the extent needed, reductions will be accomplished in the following order:
(a) If the Income Security Plan or Income Security PlanEnhanced have not been offered, the Company will solicit volunteers by the title classification within a twenty five (25) mile radius that is being reduced to accept termination with termination allowance, or take voluntary layoff with recall rights. Acceptance by the Company will be in order of seniority. In no event shall the number of employees who volunteer to separate exceed the number of employees determined by the Company to be surplus.
(b) Occasional and/or temporary employees
19
(c) Probationary employees
(d) Contingent employees
(e) Regular full-time employees and regular part-time employees
SECTION 9.1.2. In the sequential laying off of regular full-time employees, and of regular part-time employees with less than twelve (12) months accredited service, order of accredited service will not be solely governing but, other factors being equal, inverse accredited service will be followed.
(a) The right to retain those employees who have the necessary essential skill to perform the work which an employee with greater accredited service does not possess is reserved to management.
SECTION 9.2. For the purposes of this Article, employees absent from active employment by reason of disability and/or leave of absence shall be treated as follows:
SECTION 9.2.1. When sufficient accredited service exists for retention of . employment, the employee's status is to remain unchanged pending otherwise availability to return to active employment.
SECTION 9.2.2. When insufficient accredited service exists, the employee shall be subject to lay off, the same as though he/she were actively at work.
SECTION 9.3. At least seven calendar days' notification will be given to the Union and the employee(s) by the Company in the instance of expected full lay off of regular full-time employees who have accredited service of twelve months or less.
SECTION 9.3.1. At least fifteen (15) calendar days' notification will be given of expected full lay off of regular full-time employees who have accredited service in excess of twelve (12) months.
SECTION 9.3.2. Notification to the Union will be directed to the Business Manager's office.
SECTION 9.3.2.1. At Union request, the Company will meet with the Union to review the Company's submitted plan for layoff. If agreement as to an alternate plan cannot be achieved within 7 days following notification to the Union, then the layoff shall proceed in accordance with the original notification to the Union and with this Article 9. This provision shall be applicable only when employees who have accredited service in excess of
20
twelve (12) months are notified of expected full layoff.
SECTION 9.4. Any regular employee, having more than twelve (12) months accredited service, who is notified that through force reduction employment shall not be continued in the present job, may elect to terminate with termination allowance or elect to volunteer for layoff with recall rights or elect to exercise job transfer and/or "bumping" rights.
(a) Such employee shall so indicate in writing on a form provided by the Company.
(b) Transfer may be to a vacant job within the bargaining unit in the same title classification but in another location, in a lower or lateral title classification at the same location, or in a lower or lateral title classification in another location, subject to Company standards.
(c) Transfers to vacant positions as outlined in paragraph (b) of this Section 9.4 supersede Article 8 of this Agreement.
(d) An employee who refuses a transfer offer does not prejudice his/her bumping rights or recall rights except that an employee who refuses a transfer to a vacancy not lower than his/her current job classification, and which vacancy is twenty-five miles or less distance from his/her current reporting location, shall forfeit bumping and/or recall rights.
SECTION 9.4.1. In the application of bumping privileges under this Section 9.4 the following limitations shall apply.
(a) Employees with one but less than two years' accredited service may exercise their option within twenty-five (25) miles.
(b) Employees with more than two years' accredited service may exercise their option within the collective bargaining unit.
SECTION 9.4.2. The privilege of displacing a less senior employee to retain continuing employment is at the election of the employee subject to the following considerations:
SECTION 9.4.2.1. An employee not desiring to exercise his/her option does not prejudice his/herrightsfor recall from lay-off under the provision of this Article.
SECTION 9.4.2.2. Advance notification of desire to exercise his/her option must be given by the employee to his/her supervisor, in writing. An employee electing not to exercise
--
SECTION 9.4.2.4. The employee shall not be permitted either "job hopping" or seeking of new job experience by repetitive bumping.
(a) An employee may not bump into a new job title classification when there is opportunity within twenty-five (25) miles of his/her current reporting location to bump in his/her own classification or into one previously occupied by him.
When the selected job requires the employee to
relocate, and more than one choice of location is
possible, the Company may exercise discretion as to
"permitted location, or alternate location, based on best
meeting the needs of the business, giving due weight to
the employee's desires.
SECTION 9.4.2.5. If the selected job is one previously held by that employee, he/she must be able to perform the same job currently with minimal (at least two weeks) time for refamiliarization.
SECTION 9.4.2.6. If the selected job is one not previously held by that employee, he/she must possess sufficient qualifications of skill, aptitude, experience, dexterity, and knowledge, in accordance with Company qualifications in effect at the time for the selected job.
SECTION 9.4.27. So as to avoid situations of an employee of limited experience in his/her title classification from bumping a more seasoned employee in that same classification, the employee can exercise his/her full accredited service only if he/she has two or more years' work time spent in that job. If he/she elects to seek a job of lower classification previously held by him, his/her time in both jobs shall be additive for purposes of this provision.
SECTION 9.4.2.8. The employee who is displaced may exercise any privileges available to him under this Article.
(a) The advance notification requirements of Section 9.3 of this Article are not applicable to such displacements,
but, rather will be considered as a consequence of the original force adjustment. However, when an employee has exhausted transfer rights, the employee shall have five (5) working days after notification before being laid off.
SECTION 9.4.2.9. Costs of moving to the new location will be assumed by the employee.
SECTION 9.5. On recall, notification to report for work may be given orally or by written notice directed to the laid off employee by mailing such notice, by certified mail, to such employee at the address last known to the Company. Said laid off employee shall be conclusively deemed to have received said notice at the expiration of the period of time it would normally take for said notice, so mailed, to reach the addressee in the ordinary course of mail service after the same has been deposited in a receiving receptacle of the United States mail service. It shall be the duty of every employee laid off by the Company, to keep the Company informed in writing of his/her address.
SECTION 9.6. An employee who has been laid off and subsequently recalled, when recalled, shall notify the Company in writing by certified mail or orally, of availability for work within three (3) days after notice to report, and shall report for work within ten (10) days after said notice from the Company. Failure to give the notice of availability or failure to report for work after said notice to report for work shall terminate all of the employee's rights under this Contract except as provided in Section 9.7.
SECTION 9.7. A failure to report for work within ten (10) days after notification by the Company, as provided above, because of sickness, injury or other cause beyond such laid off employee's control, shall not terminate rights under this contract providing the Company shall have been notified thereof in writing within three days after notice to report for work and shall thereafter have been furnished satisfactory evidence of such cause and of the fact that such person will report to work without intermediate employment as soon as the cause is eliminated. Any such cause shall not extend the employee's right to report to work beyond twenty-four (24) months from the time of lay-off unless said employee shall have requested such extension in writing and the Company, in its sole discretion for justifiable reasons, expressly extends said period.
SECTION 9.8. An employee shall not be required to give up permanent employment to return for temporary employment with this Company in order to retain his/her accredited service.
SECTION 9.9. Length of accredited service as defined in Article 5, Section 5.1 shall control in determining the order in which laid off employees for each classification will be recalled in any district.
SECTION 9.10. When a laid off employee is recalled following a force adjustment, he/she shall be placed on the appropriate wage progression
23
schedule in accordance with the following:
(a) If returned to the same job, he/she shall be placed on the same position of the wage progression schedule he/she was on at the time of force adjustment.
(b) If he/she returns to a lower rated job, or to a higher rated job, he/she shall be considered as reclassified from his/her former job with wage treatment thereby as outlined in Exhibit A Wage Schedule Administration. This procedure will be applicable, as well, when a relocation is involved.
SECTION 9.11. Employees displaced by reason offeree reduction shall be returned to their previous classification and location, if they so desire, at the earliest opportunity. This provision shall supersede the provisions of Article 8 of this Agreement. Employees returned to a previous classification by application of this Section 9.11 shall be returned to the same position on that wage schedule unless the application of the provisions of Exhibit A of this Agreement would provide for a higher wage rate. This right of retransfer shall not exceed two years and apply only to the original job classification. Should the employee refuse retransfer, all retransfer rights are terminated.
SECTION 9.12. Termination Allowance: Regular employees with two or more years of accredited service who suffer loss of immediate employment through lay-off will be paid a termination allowance based on accredited service and basic wage rate at the time of lay-off. Computation of termination allowance will be on the basis of one week (40 hours) for each year of accredited service. Such termination allowance will also be paid to pension eligible employees who suffer loss of employment through layoff.
SECTION 9.12.1. Payments to regular part-time employees will be prorated based on average hours worked per week during the 13-week period immediately preceding lay-off.
SECTION 9.13. Termination allowance normally will be paid according to the Company's payroll procedures for the hours equivalent to the employee's regular work week to the extent of the total allowance granted. LUMP SUM PAYMENT WILL BE MADE ONLY WHEREIN IT BECOMES CONDITIONAL UPON SUCH PAYMENT THAT NO FURTHER OBLIGATION RESTS UPON THE COMPANY WITH RESPECT TO THAT FORMER EMPLOYEE. Employees are entitled to no other benefits when on lay-off except those covered under Article 8, Section 8.4, and under this Article 9.
SECTION 9.13.1. Termination payments made will be exclusive of earned vacation payments to which the employee may be entitled.
SECTION 9.13.2. Whenever any employee who has been paid termination allowance is subsequently reemployed and is again terminated, termination allowance in the instance of the second, or subsequent, termination will be computed on the basis of total accredited
24
service less payments previously received.
SECTION 9.14. No termination allowance shall be due to an employee in any case where termination is the result of (a) voluntary or involuntary retirement on pension or (b) death, or (c) termination for transfer between companies, or (d) resignation or quit by the employee, or (e) dismissed for cause, or (f) as a result of any sale or other disposition by the Company of the exchange at which the employee is working or at which he/she is assigned to work out of, when the employee concerned is continued in the employment of the Company or of the new management of the exchange.
SECTION 9.15. If an offer for recall within a twenty five (25) mile radius from the employee's previous reporting center is made when an employee is receiving termination allowance payments, such payments will be immediately discontinued.
ARTICLE 10
HOLIDAYS
SECTION 10.1. All regular employees shall observe the following holidays:
--
(Note: Employees with absence beyond three (3) consecutive scheduled work days must notify the GTE Short Term Disability Administrator immediately. Failure to do so may result in denial of Short Term Disability Benefits.)
Section 12.6. Absences must be authorized by the appropriate management representative and prior to authorization of absences exceeding three (3) consecutive scheduled days, the Company may require the employee to furnish a medical physician's report to support the illness or injury. Illness or physical injuries in excess of three (3) consecutive scheduled days not substantiated by a medical physician's report will be ineligible for Short Term Disability.
Section 12.7. Management will reserve the right to investigate any case of disability due to illness or injury, for which benefits are requested. The Company may require a second opinion from a physician other than the one in regular attendance at Company expense.
Section 12.8. Successive periods of Short Term Disability shall be subject to the waiting days outlined in Section 12.3 and shall be counted together as one period in computing the period during which an employee shall be entitled to benefits. Any absent sick reported time would interrupt the thirteen (13) week restoration period. Any sickness or injury occurring after an employee has been continuously engaged in the performance of duty for thirteen (13) weeks shall be considered as new sickness or injury and not part of any disability which preceded such period of thirteen (13) weeks.
Section 12.9. Employees shall not be entitled to receive Short Term Disability Benefits for time for which any other payments are paid them by
31
the Company.
Section 12.10. No rights to benefits under this Article shall exist in the case of disability for work time lost for mental and/or emotional illness, drug addiction and/or alcoholism (with the exception of hospitalization and/or intensive out-patient therapy) unless the determination for disability is made by a licensed psychiatrist.
The Accident Disability benefit schedule is as follows:
ACCREDITED SERVICE LEVEL OF
REQUIREMENTS
BENEFITS*
6 Months or More
Make whole to after Tax net for 13 weeks 50% pay for 39 weeks
*Less payments by law, such as Workers' Compensation.
(Refer to the Plan for Hourly Employees' Disability Benefits for the text of the Plan.)
ARTICLE 13
LEAVE OR EXCUSED ABSENCE
SECTION 13.1. An informal leave of absence for a period not exceeding 30 calendar days may be granted at the discretion of Management. Formal leaves of absence of a duration in excess of 30 calendar days may be granted in accordance with Company rules and regulations. Application for- leaves of absence shall be presented to Management on forms provided by the Company.
SECTION 13.1.1. Any employee remaining away from duty beyond the time specified in the leave, or any employee who shall accept employment other than with the Company during such leave, shall be subject to discharge.
SECTION 13.12. On one's return from any absence taken without making written application or receiving leave in accordance with the above stated requirements, the Company may waive such requirements in event it is satisfied that such leave was occasioned by an emergency or under such circumstances as made compliance with said requirements reasonably impossible.
SECTION 13.2. Regular employees required to serve on jury duty will be paid the straight-time rate for the scheduled time lost. Employees on jury duty, when temporarily excused from attendance in court, shall report for their regular duties
32
during scheduled hours.
SECTION 13.2.1. An employee absent from his/her duties to appear in court as a witness, under subpoena, will be paid the straight rate for the scheduled time lost, providing his/her involvement does not bring discredit upon himself or the Company. Witnesses subpoenaed on behalf of the Union shall be granted time off, without pay.
SECTION 13.3. Regular employees shall be granted a maximum of 3 days paid time off for absence by reason of death in the immediate family. Paid time off shall be at the basic hourly rate for scheduled hours lost. The employee may select any 3 days between and including the day death occurs and two days following burial. For the purposes of this Article, "immediate family" shall include the father and mother, or equivalent thereof, spouse, children, sister, brother, father-in-law, mother-in-law, grandchildren, and grandparents of the employee and relatives who have regularly resided in the employees household and so resided at time of death. "Immediate family" shall also include the brother-in-law and sister-in-law, and great-grandparents of the employee provided however, that payment hereunder shall not exceed 2 days between and including the day death occurs and the day following burial.
SECTION 13.4. The Company agrees upon fifteen (15) days prior notice, unless prevented by service requirements, to grant leaves of absence for Union business, other than joint meetings dealing with grievances, to such Union members as may from time to time be designated in writing to the Regional Director-Labor Relations or his/her designate by the President or Business Manager of the Union. The total of such leaves of absence shall not aggregate more than one hundred fifty (150) days in any contract year and no more than four (4) employees (no more than (2) in a department in a district), shall be granted leave of absence at any one time. Such leaves of absence shall not be for less than one (1) working day. The Company agrees that upon not less than fifteen (15) days' notice in writing to the Company, not more than one employee in each district shall be granted leaves of absence for one day in each month for Union business.
SECTION 13.4.1. Subject to the above, employees who are officers or executive board members of the Union will be given special consideration to requests for leave of absence for Union business. Such absence shall be granted unless it would seriously interfere with service requirements. Such periods of time off shall not exceed one month in any one instance.
--
SECTION 13.6. The Company agrees that any employee designated by the Union as a representative for the purpose of negotiating a Contract with the Company, which employee is unable to work his or her regularly scheduled work hours by reason of such Contract negotiations, shall not have such lost time counted against the employee in determining eligibility for vacation under Article 11 of this Contract, provided maximum notification is given by employees to their Supervisor.
SECTION 13.6.1. The Company agrees to pay the basic hourly rate for absence from assigned duties for four members on the Union Negotiating Committee on the day or days when in joint conference with management for the purpose of negotiating new contract provisions, changes, amendments, or modification to this Agreement. It is understood that the Union Negotiating Committee will not necessarily be limited to four members.
SECTION 13.7. In addition the Union shall have the right to call such witnesses and appoint such Union arbitrators as shall be required by future circumstances, and such witnesses and/or arbitrators shall be granted time off, without pay, as necessary in addition to the above.
SECTION 13.8. Such time off for Union business as provided in Sections 13.4, 13.6, 13.7 of this Article, shall not affect the employee's record of accredited service or vacation rights.
SECTION 13.9. Any employee who has an obligation to the Armed Forces for military training, shall upon application, be granted a leave of absence for the period of his/her military training or National Guard duty. Such employee shall not be required to take his/her vacation during this period or lose his/her record of accredited service.
SECTION 13.10. Any regular employee who is now in the military service of the United States or who enters the military service of the United States under the terms of the National Selective Service Act of 1948 or any extension thereof, shall be granted a leave of absence for the period of such military service, and his/her record of accredited service shall continue. Upon completion of the term of military service, such employee shall be entitled to reinstatement at the former or comparable job classification (unless circumstances have so changed as to make it impossible or unreasonable to do so) provided that such employee shall (a) present an honorable discharge or certificate of satisfactory service, (b) be qualified to perform the duties of their former or comparable job classification, and (c) make application for re-instatement within 90 days after discharge from
35
military service.
SECTION 13.10.1. Any regular employee who is granted a leave of absence to enter the military service of the United States and is reemployed under Section 13.10 hereof shall be entitled to vacation based on his/her accredited service with the Company. Such vacation to be granted in accordance with the provisions of Article 11, Section 11.1.
ARTICLE 14
GROUP HEALTH INSURANCE BENEFITS
SECTION 14.1. The Company makes available on a voluntary basis to all employees a Group Health Insurance Plan at Group Insurance rates, through authorized payroll deductions. The Company will contribute toward the total premium cost of the approved group health insurance plan at the rate 100% of the participating employee individual, employee plus one dependent, or family monthly premium. The Group Medical Plan will consist of the Plan or Plans operating within the Company's geographical operation areas, and as made available by the Company to its employees through authorized payroll deductions. The employee premium cost will be offset by Company contribution to the extent provided herein.
SECTION 14.2. Major improvements to the Company sponsored Medical Plan effective July 1,2003 include:
SECTION 14.2.1 Wherein there is a Lifetime Maximum of $1,000,000, this maximum will increase to $2,000,000.
SECTION 14.2.2. A hearing aid benefit will be added to the Company sponsored Medical Plan. This benefit will provide coverage for expenses for a hearing examination by a licensed audiologist or physician, the hearing aid device, molds, repairs, hearing aid check and batteries. The maximum reimbursement under this benefit is $1,000 per covered individual every 24 months. The benefit is not subject to deductible, co-pays or R&C and there are no separate maximums for any in or out of network expenses. Hearing aids are covered for all hearing impairments that are a result of birth defects, illness, accidents and/or injury and progressive loss of hearing. Replacement and repair of hearing aids are covered unless due to misuse or loss.
SECTION 14.2.3. Eligible surviving spouses, dependents and registered domestic partners (RDP) of an active employee who participates in a Company sponsored Medical Plan, shall be provided with medical coverage at no charge for twenty-four (24) months following the death of the employee.
SECTION 14.2.4. Effective January 1,2004 employees who elect
not to enroll themselves or their eligible dependents in the Company sponsored Medical Plan or a HMO will be eligible for an annual "opt out" credit of five hundred dollars ($500). This credit will be given to the employee over twenty-six (26) pay periods on his/her bi-weekly paycheck. In order to be eligible for this credit, the employee may be required to provide satisfactory evidence of medical coverage upon request.
SECTION 14.3. The Company contribution for regular full-time employees and for those regular part-time employees hired prior to January 1, 1991 will be 100% toward the monthly premium costs for each eligible employee's individual, employee plus one dependent, or family membership. The Company contribution for regular part-time employees hired after January 1,1991 will be 100% per month toward the premium for individual membership or 50% toward the premium for employee plus one dependent or family membership.
SECTION 14.3.1. Effective 7-1-2000, Regular employees will be eligible for Medical insurance coverage after ninety (90) days of employment or when the employee enrolls whichever is later.
SECTION 14.3.2. Enrollment in the Group Medical Plan will be in accordance with the usual and customary procedures of the carrier.
SECTION 14.4. Dental Insurance will be provided to employees and effective 71-2000, the enrollment will be an independent offering from the Group Medical Plan. Also effective 7-1-2000, regular employees will be eligible for dental insurance coverage after ninety (90) days of employment or when the employee enrolls whichever is later. Company contribution toward the dental premium cost is as follows:
Coverage Type
Effective
Company Contribution July 1. 2003 July 1, 2004
Single Employee plus 1 Family
100% of Premium 50% of Premium 50% of Premium
100% 75% 75%
100% 80% 80%
SECTION 14.5. Improvements to the Company sponsored Dental Plan effective July 1, 2003 are as follows:
SECTION 14.5.1. Orthodontic Care: Increase per covered person lifetime maximum from $1,000 to $1,500.
SECTION 14.5.2. TMJ Care: Establish new per covered person lifetime maximum of $500.
SECTION 14.5.3. Preventive General & Major Services: Increase per covered person annual maximum from $1,000 to $1,500.
SECTION 14.5.4. The annual $25.00 per individual deductible will be waived when an employee and/or his/her enrolled dependents use a Preferred Dental Provider (PDP).
SECTION 14.6. During the term of this Agreement, all regular employees may participate in the GTE Life Insurance Program in existence for bargaining unit employees. Effective July 1, 2000, the Company provided life insurance will be offered to regular employees after ninety (90) days of employment or whenever the employee enrolls whichever is later.
SECTION 14.7. The Company retains the right to determine the Insurance carrier (s).
ARTICLE 15
FURNISHING OF TOOLS - WORK GLOVES
SECTION 15.1. The Company will furnish, without cost to employees, all tools necessary for the performance of their duties.
SECTION 15.2. Employees who are furnished tools by the Company will be held responsible for their proper use and care and will be held accountable for all tools assigned to them.
(a) Tools furnished to employees by the Company which become broken or worn through normal wear will be replaced by the Company without cost to the employee.
(b) Tools furnished to employees by the Company which are lost or stolen will be replaced at the employee's expense except when loss results from causes beyond the employee's control including failure of the Company to provide a secure place for storage.
(c) The Company may inspect tools at any time, and shall condemn from further use any tool which is found to be unsafe or unfit.
SECTION 15.3. Employees will continue to use their present required tools until such toots are, or become, worn out, or otherwise not usable, at which time the Company will furnish replacements.
SECTION 15.4. The Company will specify the quantity, kind, type and make of tools that are to be used in connection with each type of work.
SECTION 15.5. The Company will furnish, without cost to the employee, work gloves for outside plant forces, subject to the provisions, as are applicable to tools, of the preceding Sections 15.2, 15.3, and 15.4.
38
ARTICLE 16
CONCESSION TELEPHONE SERVICE
SECTION 16.1. Subject to any provisions of the Company's lawfully established tariffs, all regular employees with six or more months of accredited service are eligible for 50% concession rates for monthly recurring flat-rate local service network charges or USS basic local service and usage charges (local exchange and extended area service points), including touch calling charges and applicable state and federal excise taxes, but excluding access charges in connection with residence telephone service furnished to a regular employee of Verizon North Inc. Regular rates are charged for all toll message service, foreign exchange service, non-recurring charges, installation, repair, moves and changes, and all other services offered by the Company.
SECTION 16.2. Concession rates shall be applicable to telephone service at the employee's place of residence with listing in the employee's name.
SECTION 16.3. Employee concession rate service may be individual or partyline service as the employee may select. The Company, however, reserves the right of reassignment of individual line service to party-line service where regrading may be required in the interests of providing telephone service to other subscribers.
ARTICLE 17
PAYROLL DEDUCTION OF UNION DUES OR SERVICE FEES
SECTION 17.1. Upon request of a written authorization signed by a regular employee authorizing the Company to deduct Union dues or service fees from that employee's wages and remit the same to the Union. The Company shall, beginning with the first calendar month after receiving such written authorization and during the existence of this Contract, deduct Union dues or service fees from such employee's wages in the amount specified in the authorization and forward, monthly, the amount so deducted to the Union. There shall be no dues or service fees deductions made for any temporary, occasional or probationary employee. Such Union dues or service fees shall be deducted from each of the first two pay periods each month. The deductions shall be made in relatively equal amounts from each pay period and shall not exceed the total amount authorized. (This provisions supersedes the provision of Exhibit "C" which requires the deduction of dues from the first payroll period of each month.) Such deduction amounts shall be based upon the employee's wage rate in effect on the first day of the month in which the deductions are made.
(a) Effective January 1,1979, temporary employees of three (3) months or more may authorize payroll deduction as specified in this Section 17.1.
(b) Effective January 1,1985, probationary employees of three (3)
39
months or more may authorize payroll deduction as specified in this Section 17.1.
SECTION 17.2. Upon receipt of a written request addressed to the Company and signed by the employee, revoking that employee's authorization for deduction of Union dues or service fees, the Company will, beginning with the first calendar month after receiving such written authorization, discontinue said deduction.
SECTION 17.3. Such authorization for Union dues or service fees deduction shall be in the appropriate form of Exhibit "C" which is attached hereto and made a part hereof.
Union dues or service fees deductions shall be suspended
during periods of leave-of-absence or layoff. When the
employee is returned to the payroll in a regular status, deduction
of Union dues or service fees shall be resumed automatically
--
SECTION 20.1. The Company agrees not to conduct a lock-out or shut-down for an anti-Union purpose during the term of this Agreement.
SECTION 20.2. The Company agrees to furnish within thirty days after the signing of this Agreement, to the Financial Secretary and the Business Manager of the Union a current list of all of its employees included in the bargaining unit, and quarterly thereafter a list of additions and deletions.
SECTION 20.3. The Company shall furnish and maintain bulletin boards for the Union's exclusive use at suitable locations at all exchanges where there are employees of the Company eligible to belong to the bargaining unit. The maximum size of the bulletin boards shall be 15" x 18". The location of such bulletin board shall be determined by mutual agreement between the Union and the Company. The Union shall post material no place other than on these bulletin boards. The bulletin boards shall show no indication other than the name of the Union. The use of these bulletin boards shall be confined to the posting of notices and announcements by the Union which pertain to the following: (a) Notices of Union Meetings, (b) Notices and results of Union elections, (c) Notices of Union appointments, (d) Minutes of Joint Conferences, (e) Notices of Union recreational and social affairs, and (f) Safety posters or safety literature.
SECTION 20.3.1. Any material other than that covered in this Article shall be submitted to the Company for approval prior to posting. Such material shall not be posted unless it has been approved by the Company. If such material is posted on a bulletin board without the approval of the Company, such bulletin board shall be removed from service for the duration of this Agreement.
SECTION 20.4. Employment benefits not otherwise provided in this Agreement shall not be diminished during the duration of this Agreement except upon prior agreement with the Union. Such benefits include military service payment allowances, disability benefits, pension benefits, Group Life Insurance Plan and Group Medical Plan.
ARTICLE 21
MUTUAL OBLIGATIONS
SECTION 21.1. The Company and the Union recognize their individual responsibility as set forth in Section 19.5 of Article 19. In so doing, it is agreed that the Company and the Union have a mutual obligation to promote a pro-
43
safety atmosphere. (a) Both the Company and the Union will continually strive to educate the employees and pursue compliance regarding the use of safety equipment and safe work practices. (b) The Company Safety Administrator or designate and two Company employees so designated by the Union will meet quarterly for the purpose of discussing specific safety matters. It shall be the responsibility of the Company to set the time and place for such meetings. Regular scheduled work hours spent by the two (2) employees shall be compensated for at their basic hourly rates of pay. (c) With respect to Article 19, Section 19.5 of the Labor Agreement, Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 986 agree that the Company has the exclusive responsibility to provide a safe and healthful workplace and conditions of employment.
44
ARTICLE 22
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
SECTION 22.1 This Agreement, together with Exhibit "A", Exhibit "B", and Exhibit "C" attached hereto, constitutes the complete Contract between the Company and the Union, and no additions, waivers, deletions, changes or amendments shall be made during the fife of this Agreement except by mutual consent in writing of the parties hereto.
SECTION 22.2. When duly executed by the Union and approved in writing by the International President of the Union, with copies so executed and delivered to the Company and the Union, this Agreement shall be binding upon the parties hereto, and each of them and their successors and assigns, from 12:01 A.M. October 27, 2002 to October 22, 2005, and shall continue in force from year to year thereafter until terminated by not less than a sixty-day written notice sent by either party hereto to the other party.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have hereto caused this Agreement to be executed in seven copies on the 20th day of February. 2003.
VERIZON NORTH INC. (NORTH CENTRAL REGION)
BY: EDWARD J. WEISE Regional PresidentNorth/Central Region
BY: MARY J. DARLING Director Labor Relations
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCAL 986
BY: FRED M. SABOL Business Manager
BY: CHRIS MOHR President
EXHIBIT A
WAGE SCHEDULE ADMINISTRATION
SECTION A. Progression of increases within the wage schedule are to proceed according to "Interval To Increase". An employee is to be paid at least the start rate but not in excess of the maximum rate of the wage schedule for their job classification. An employee's wage rate within the wage schedule is not necessarily determined by total service with the Company.
SECTION A.1. "Interval To Increase" is the required months of service between progression wage increases.
SECTION A.2. Progression increases for employees who have been granted wage credit shall proceed in accord with the interval to increase, or the remainder thereof, as designated by the position of the wage rate on the wage schedule.
SECTION A.2.1. Part-time employees will achieve progression increases based on cumulative hours worked equivalent to the appropriate interval to increase.
SECTION A.3. In determining wage rate progression, excused absences not to exceed 30 calendar days a year (22 accumulative work days) and non-worked paid time shall be considered as time worked. Changes in rate of pay shall be effective on the first of each pay period. If the change would otherwise become effective during the first half of the pay period, it will be set forward, and if the change would otherwise become effective during the second half of the pay period, it will be deferred to the first day of the next pay period.
SECTION B. If an employee is changed to another job on a higher wage schedule, the employee's rate is to be adjusted to the rate on the higher wage schedule that is immediately above the employee's current rate. If an employee is displaced by reason of force reduction and subsequently returns to his/her previous classification within two (2) years or less the employee will be returned to the same position on the wage schedule previously held. Subsequent progression increases will proceed from the date of the previous progression increase.
SECTION B.1. Employees on incentive plans other than the Team Performance Award will receive a wage adjustment to the next higher rate on the higher wage schedule, which results in a minimum increase of no less than seventy-five ($.75) per hour.
SECTION B.2. If an employee is changed to another job on a lower wage schedule, the employee's rate is to be adjusted to the rate on the lower wage schedule that is the same as or immediately below the
employee's current rate. Subsequent progression increases will proceed from the date of the previous progression increase. SECTION B.3. If an employee is changed to another job on the same wage schedule, there will be no change in rate. Progression increases will proceed from the date of the previous progression increase. SECTION C. Employees placed in-charge shall be paid $.75 an hour as a differential for each hour served in that capacity.
47
EXHIBIT B
Attached hereto and made a part hereof are wage progression schedules identified below:
--
ADOPTION ASSISTANCE
1. Effective July 1, 2003, Verizon agrees to make available the opportunity for regular full or part-time employees of the Company who are covered by the Collective Bargaining Agreement to participate in the Adoption Assistance Plan which allows employees to claim reimbursement of expenses incurred on or after the effective date up to $10,000 per adopted child in accordance with existing Plan provisions.
2. The selection of the administrator, the administration of the Plan and all the terms and conditions relating thereto, and the resolution of any disputes involving the terms, conditions, interpretation, administration, or benefits payable shall be determined by and at the sole discretion of the Company. No matter concerning the Adoption Assistance Plan or any difference thereunder shall be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedure of the Collective Bargaining Agreement
3. This Memorandum of Agreement is effective upon ratification and shall expire on October 22, 2005. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement shall also terminate on October 22, 2005 and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region)
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 986
Mary J. Darling Director Labor Relations
Fred M. Sabol Business Manager IBEW Local 986
ADOPTION ASSISTANCE PLAN Regular active status full and part-time employees are eligible for this benefit Available from the first day of active employment Adopted child must be:
--
9. When assigned "Compensated Availability" the employee may be granted permission where practical to take a Company vehicle home if not already participating in Home dispatch. The employee shall exercise reasonable care for the security and safety of the vehicle and tools. It is understood the vehicle and tools are not available for personal use.
10. If "Compensated Availability" assignments conflict with the employees personal calendar, he or she will be afforded the opportunity to trade days or weeks with supervisory approval. Solicitation of the trade will be the responsibility of the employee.
11. It is not the intent of this agreement to circumvent vacation or holiday scheduling, payment, premiums or overtime provisions.
This Memorandum of Agreement shall become effective on October 27, 2002 and shall expire on October 22,2005. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement, including Compensated Availability, shall also terminate on October 22,2005. If the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers believes that the assignment of Compensated Availability is being abused, the parties agree to meet and discuss the situation.
61
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (NORTH CENTRAL REGION) And
CONTINGENT EMPLOYMENT
Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 986 hereby agree that bargaining unit employees who have been laid off and are within their period of recall may be engaged for work assignments and specific projects on a contingent basis. Wherever practical and consistent with the needs of the business, contingent employees shall be employed for a designated period of time not to exceed twelve consecutive months with the following stipulations:
1.
Employees placed under this Agreement will have the word "Contingent"
preceding their occupational title. For example, an employee who is
placed in the occupational title of Customer Zone Technician II will, for
record purposes, have a new occupational title of Contingent Customer
Zone Technician II.
2.
A Contingent Employee will be treated as a regular employee for the time
that he/she is reinstated. Upon completion of the work assignment, the
--
DOMESTIC PARTNER BENEFITS
1. Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region), ("the Company"), and International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 986, ("the Union"), agree to extend benefits, as set forth below, to employees' domestic partners and children of domestic partners.
2. Effective January 1, 2001, employees may elect health and welfare benefits coverage of domestic partners and children of domestic partners, as described below. Employees who have been (or will be) identified by the Company as employed in a property that is to be divested as part of Verizon's Network Services Repositioning program will be excluded from this offer.
3. The Company and the Union agree that eligibility of a domestic partner for health and welfare benefits shall be based on the following conditions:
A. The employee and the domestic partner are same-sex, adult partners.
B. Neither the employee nor the domestic partner is married or a domestic partner of a third party.
C. Both the employee and the domestic partner are at least eighteen (18) years of age and are mentally competent to contract.
D. The employee and the domestic partner are not related by blood to a degree of closeness that would prohibit legal marriage in their state of residence.
E. The employee and the domestic partner live together at the same permanent residence.
F. The employee and the domestic partner are jointly responsible for each other's welfare and basic living expenses.
G. The domestic partner is the employee's sole domestic partner and intends to remain so indefinitely.
H. The employee and the domestic partner agree to notify the Company and any other appropriate party of any changes in the above conditions.
4. The Company and the Union agree that eligibility of children of domestic partners for health and welfare benefits shall be based on the following conditions:
A. An eligible domestic partner is the natural parent, adoptive parent or legal guardian of the child.
B. The child is unmarried and either under the age of nineteen (19), or under the age of twenty-five (25), attending an accredited secondary school, college, university or nursing school, and are dependent on the domestic partner for care and support.
5. An employee may elect coverage of a domestic partner and any children of a domestic partner for the following benefits. The amount and availability of benefits are governed by the provisions of the applicable plan and are subject to the Internal Revenue Code and related regulations.
A.
Medical
B.
Dental
C. Health care continuation coverage
D. Flexible Reimbursement Plan Healthcare Reimbursement Account (for IRS Tax Dependents)
E. Dependent Care Reimbursement Account (for IRS Tax Dependants)
F.
Retiree Medical (limited to Domestic Partner and children of
Domestic Partner who are covered by medical plan at time of
employee's retirement)
G. Group Universal Life
6. Employees are entitled to Bereavement Leave in the event of the death of a domestic partner, children of the domestic partner and other domestic partner family members as specified in the relevant collective bargaining agreement.
7. Employees are entitled to Family and Medical Leave for the care of a
72
seriously-ill domestic partner, or child of a domestic partner, subject to general eligibility requirements.
8. Other benefit programs are also available to domestic partners and/or their children, as applicable. Availability and amount of benefit is governed by the applicable plan or policy.
A. Event travel Expense (one guest accommodated)
B. Financial Counseling
C. Survivor Support
D. Dependent Scholarships (children of domestic partner only)
E. Adoption Assistance (employee must be adoptive parent)
F. Company Discounts (recipient is employee)
G. Chifdcare Discounts (recipient is employee)
H. Employee Assistance Program
9. In the event that any of the above Domestic Partner Benefits are found to be discriminatory against non-eiigible, unmarried employees in any jurisdiction, then these Domestic Partner Benefits will not be available in that jurisdiction.
10. To the extent that the terms of any plan conflict with the provisions of this Memorandum of Agreement, the terms of such plan shall govern. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Memorandum of Agreement shall constitute part of the plan to which it relates; provided, however, it may be elaborated upon in other plan materials, such as employee bulletins and enrollment materials, by the Company. To the extent that any provision of this Memorandum of Agreement conflicts with any state or local law, the parties agree to discuss the applicability of such state or local law.
11. This Memorandum of Agreement is effective on October 27, 2002 and shall expire on October 22, 2005. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement shall also terminate on October 22, 2005 and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
73
Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region)
74
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
And
DRUG AND ALCOHOL POLICY
The following represents the understanding of the parties concerning the implementation of sections 7.3, 7.4, and 7.5 of the Company's Drug and Alcohol Policy (Practice 117-300-000).
1. The Company will require that the observations that result in the requirement for drug and/or alcohol screening will be documented in writing by the management employee(s) who makes the observations.
2. It is not the intent of the policy to require a drug/alcohol screen as a result of a performance problem(s), in and of itself, without the presence of indicators that would cause a "reasonable person" to conclude that the individual could be under the influence of a drug or alcohol. This is to say that a single indicator that could be the result of many different conditions would not be the sole factor that would result in a requirement for a drug/alcohol screening.
3. The Company acknowledges that employees will have the right to union representation, as provided by the Weingarten decision, during the screening process. The Company has not agreed to representation that is beyond that provided in Weingarten.
4. At the time the specimen is collected, the employee will be provided the opportunity to have a split specimen. The 2nd specimen will be properly sealed and maintained as to be available for retest at the request of the employee and/or union.
5. The Company agrees that the employee who tests positive on both the screen and the confirmation test will have the option to request the second part of the original specimen to be released to a NIDA certified lab to be retested. The Company's responsibility for the chain of custody ends when the specimen is released at the direction of the second testing lab. This request must be made by the Union or the employee within ten (10) work days from the date the original test result is provided to the employee. The employee will notify the Verizon Medical Review Officer
and the Regional Labor Relations Director of his/her intention to have a confirmatory retest. Upon request, the employee will arrange for the retest. The employee is responsible for all additional costs. The results of this retest will be forwarded to the Company as soon as the results are available for the Company's consideration.
If the second test is negative the Company will reimburse the employee for all costs of such test.
6.
In the case of a "positive" test result, the employee shall be so advised by
the Company's medical review officer or designee on a confidential basis,
prior to the reporting of the results to the employer, and the employee
shall have the right to discuss and explain the results, including the right
to advise the employer's medical review officer or designee of any
medication prescribed by his/her own physician, which may have affected
the results of the test.
7.
The Company agrees to delete the portion of the consent form that reads
"I hereby release Verizon, its employees and any such designated
institution or person from any liability resulting from the medical
procedures outlined below".
8.
The Company agrees to hold harmless and indemnify the Union against
liabilities resulting from the implementation and administration of the
Company's Drug and Alcohol Policy.
--
WHEREAS the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (hereafter "IBEW" or "the Union") and Verizon Communications companies which were subsidiaries of the former GTE Corporation (hereafter "Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region)/GTE Companies" or "the Companies" or "the Company") have collective bargaining relationships throughout the United States;
NOW THEREFORE VERIZON NORTH INC. (NORTH CENTRAL REGION)/GTE COMPANIES AND INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCAL 986 agree as follows:
The Company and the Union agree to continue joint efforts (including the 100% tuition reimbursement and the 100% prepaid feature), which allow employees additional opportunities to learn and enhance their knowledge of the jobs being performed. On an "as needed" basis as determined jointly by the parties, a joint study team, consisting of management and union officials, will be created to explore opportunities for joint educational programs. Joint study teams will explore issues such as:
--
employee in the Equipment Installer Assistant title will be afforded
no more than two (2) opportunities to successfully complete the
prerequisite COE Installer-Repairer testing in order to be placed in
the higher classification. Provisions for those employees that are
unsuccessful in meeting expectations as outlined are detailed in
item 4 of this document
3.
Employees in the Equipment Installer Assistant title will be placed
in Wage Schedule N8. Since this title is intended to be a
developmental position, employees in the Equipment Installer
81
Assistant title may not bid on other job opportunities, unless they are subject to force adjustment. Upon successful completion of all training, testing, and performance requirements, and the passing of the required tests for the COE Installer-Repairer position, the employee will be awarded the position of central office based COE Installer-Repairer. The location will be determined by the Company with input from the employee, based upon availability and service requirements.
4.
If an employee in the Equipment Installer Assistant title is a direct
hire and is unable to successfully meet expectations as outlined,
the employee will be released from employment with the Company.
Employees released as outlined in the forgoing will have no
recourse through the grievance and or arbitration process as
outlined in the Collective Bargaining Agreement
5.
An existing employee who accepts the Equipment Installer
Assistant title and is unsuccessful in meeting expectations as
outlined, shall be returned to their previous position and reporting
location, if available. Should the previous position not be available
for any reason, the employee may be placed into any other vacancy
for which he/she is qualified as determined by the Company. Being
qualified includes successfully passing any requirement job test
associated with the position. Should the employee be
unsuccessful in obtaining a position, the employee will be released
from the company.
Equipment Installer Assistant positions will be filled according to
--
While on FMLA leave, eligible employees are entitled to maintain
company-paid life insurance, medical and dental benefits to the extent
provided to active employees.
84
13.
Upon return to work, employees granted FMLA leave shall receive
accredited service for the period of the leave. There is no break in
service for purposes of vesting, eligibility to participate in pension plans
and other types of benefits and seniority.
14.
Subject to Item 15 below, at the end of the approved leave (or each
segment of the leave, as applicable), employees shall be guaranteed
reinstatement to the same or equivalent job.
15.
Reinstatement is subject to any contractual provisions of the Collective
Bargaining Agreement which cover adjustments to the workforce that
may have occurred during the leave of affected employees.
16.
Employees who wish to change their projected return date, may request
the change, in advance, and the Company will endeavor to
accommodate such requests.
17.
--
Article 12, Section 12.3(c)
The Company and the Union have further agreed that the above referenced employees will remain "grandfathered" for purposes of the above cited provisions for as long as they continue to be located in and assigned to the Brewster, Carrollton, Minerva and Strasburg exchanges of the Minerva Operating District of the Company (Amsterdam, Bergholz, Harlem Springs, Knoxville, Mechanicstown, Richmond, Dellroy, East Rochester, Hanoverton, Malvern, North Georgetown, Paris and Winona). (Reference Article I, Section 1, Union Recognition, p.1, of the Minerva Agreement)
If a "grandfathered" employee is subsequently located in and assigned to an exchange outside of the Minerva Operating District, said grandfathering will cease to exist and all provisions of the Primary agreement will be applicable.
If a "grandfathered" employee is laid off and subsequently recalled during the recall period to a position in the Minerva Operating District, he/she will continue to be "grandfathered".
It is further understood and agreed upon by the Company and the Union that no employee other than those identified on Exhibit 1 will enjoy the grandfathering provisions of this Letter of Understanding even though he/she may be located in and assigned to the Brewster, Carrollton, Minerva and Strasburg Exchanges of the Minerva Operating District of the Company (Amsterdam, Bergholz, Harlem Springs, Knoxville, Mechanicstown, Richmond, Dellroy, East Rochester, Hanoverton, Malvern, North Georgetown, Paris and Winona). (Reference Article I, Section 1, Union Recognition, p.1, of the Minerva Agreement)
The Company and the Union agree that any alleged violation of this Letter of Understanding will be subject to the Grievance and Arbitration procedures outlined in the Primary Agreement.
The Company and the Union have specifically agreed that the terms and conditions set forth in this Letter of Understanding shall survive from year to year so long as a Collective Bargaining Agreement is in effect between the parties. It is further agreed that no additions, waivers, deletions, changes or amendments will be made to this Letter of Understanding unless by mutual consent of the parties in writing.
89
GTE NORTH INCORPORATED (NORTHEAST REGION)
MARY J. DARLING ReglManager-Labor/Emp Relations
I.B.E.W. Local 986
BENJAMIN F. RICE Business Manager
GRIEVANCE MEDIATION
The Company and Union agree to establish Grievance Mediation, for grievances relating to discipline and sickness disability benefits grievances as designated in Article 4.
1. Mediation will be requested within 15 working days following the notice of the Demand for Arbitration.
2. The Company and Union by mutual agreement may request the assistance of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Services, prior to arbitration.
3. The parties will select a mediator and establish a mediation conference as expeditiously as possible for both parties.
4. The mediation conference will be held in a mutually agreed to location.
5. The mediation conference will normally be attended by the grievant, Business Manager and those people actually involved in the grievance process. Pay for the grievant shall be allowed for the attendance at the mediation conference if it is held during the employee's scheduled tour.
6. This Memorandum of Agreement is effective on October 27, 2002 and shall expire on October 22, 2005. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement, relating to Grievance Mediation shall terminate on October 22,2005, and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement, unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
--
HOME DISPATCH
VERIZON NORTH INC. (NORTH CENTRAL REGION) and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 986 agree that the Company may offer employees the opportunity to participate in the Home Dispatch Program subject to the following provisions:
The Company will determine the individuals and/or work groups to which home dispatch will be offered.
The election to participate in the Home Dispatch Program will be voluntary on the part of the employee. The employee will commit to participation in the program for a specified time period, such period to be mutually agreed to by the employee and supervisor.
Company vehicles will be used only for business purposes. The employees paid time will start and end at the job site.
The employee will be responsible for maintaining his/her assigned vehicle in accordance with the Company's maintenance procedures during non-working hours at Company expense. Breakdowns or other vehicle problems occurring during working hours will be corrected during working hours.
The employee will be expected to exercise good judgement in the care, storing and use of the Company vehicle.
This Agreement will become effective October 27, 2002 and shall remain in effect through October 22, 2005.
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCAL 986 HOURLY SAVINGS PLAN
Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 986 agree to increase the company matching contribution to the Hourly Savings Plan (HSP). Effective, July 1, 2000, the Company matching contribution will increase from 50 cents to 66 cents for every $1 contributed by the employee, up to a maximum of six percent of pay.
Effective July 6, 2003, the Company matching contribution will increase from 66 cents to 75 cents for every $1 contributed by the employee, up to a maximum of six percent of pay.
Effective July 4, 2004, the Company matching contribution will increase from 75 cents to 82 cents for every $1 contributed by the employee, up to a maximum of six percent of pay.
This MOA is effective October 27, 2002, and shall expire on October 22, 2005. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in this MOA, including the HSP, shall also terminate on October 22, 2005 and shall not survive the expiration of this MOA unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
--
104
reduces any amount of life insurance proceeds by the total amount of the LBR paid.
5. No matter concerning the Living Benefit Rider or any differences arising thereunder shall be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedure set forth in the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
6. This Memorandum of Agreement is effective on October 27, 2002 and shall expire on October 22, 2005. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement, including the Living Benefit Rider, shall also terminate on October 22, 2005 and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
105
LONG-TERM DISABILITY (LTD)
In recognition of the impact a prolonged disability can have on income security and as a valuable supplement to the short-term disability benefits currently provided by the Company. Effective January 1,1998 Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 986 agree to establish a Long-Term Disability "(LTD) Plan subject to the following provisions:
1. Regular full-time employees are eligible to participate in the LTD Plan,
subject to the following requirements:
-Completion of ninety (90) days of continuous employment (new hires).
-Enrollment during the first ninety (90) days of employment (new hires). -Enrollment during the initial Company-designated enrollment period (incumbents with at least ninety (90) days of continuous service).
-Enrollment during periods not mentioned and/or when opting up or increasing the LTD benefit level additionally require regular full-time employees to submit evidence of good health at their expense and approval by the Plan Administrator.
-The disability is not caused by: participation in an assault, crime, or illegal occupation, an intentionally self-inflicted injury, war or act of war.
-The disability does not result from conditions that existed on the date LTD coverage began or does not result in an absence from work because of the pre-existing condition for ninety (90) consecutive days.
-The contributions are continuously paid following enrollment.
2. The cost of the LTD Plan coverage will be paid by the employee. Contributions for coverage may change from time-to-time. Should this
106
occur, the Company agrees to notify the Union in writing, within fifteen (15) calendar days prior to the date of modification, specifying the cause for any change in the contribution rate.
The LTD Plan shall pay monthly benefits as follows: up to 50% of the employee's basic monthly earnings, up to a maximum of $3,000 per month or up to 60% of the employee's basic monthly earnings, up to a maximum of $5,000 per month. Monthly benefits shall be coordinated and reduced by any amount received by Workers' Compensation (or its equivalent) primary and dependent disability or retirement benefits from Social Security payments under any other State or Federal disability benefits law, GTE pension plan (if applicable), Company-provided salary continuation plan (ISP, layoff allowances) or any other plan which provides income benefits.
The employee must apply for primary and dependent (if
applicable) Social Security disability benefits.
Plan benefits are not payable for any period of disability during
which the employee refuses or fails to apply for Social Security
disability benefits or to appeal any denied claim for Social
Security benefits.
Benefits will be paid provided the Plan is in force, if eligible employees have been continuously and totally disabled under the care of a physician and absent from work for twenty-six (26) weeks or if the disability has resulted in twenty-six (26) weeks of absence during a period of fifty-two (52) consecutive weeks and the eligible employees have been under the care of physician.
-Monthly benefits will be paid for twelve (12) months, if the disability prevents eligible employees from performing their regular work or an alternative occupation with similar earning potential.
-Monthly benefits will be paid following this twelve (12) month period, if the disability prevents eligible employees from performing any work for which they are otherwise qualified to perform.
-If eligible employees become disabled prior to age sixty (60), benefits will be paid up to their 65th birthday.
-If eligible employees become disabled on or after age sixty (60), benefits will be paid according to the following schedule:
Age of Disability
Benefits Paid to Age
--
Disabilities as a result of a mental health disorder, alcoholism, or drug addiction, will generally result in monthly LTD benefits for no longer than 12 months.
During the period LTD benefits are paid, eligible employees will continue to receive life, medical, and dental insurance coverage in accordance with the Collective Bargaining Agreement between Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) and the international Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 986. Accredited service will be applied toward an eligible employee's pension calculations until the disability benefits end or the eligible employee retires, quits or dies.
The amount and availability of benefits under the LTD Plan are governed by the provisions of the Plan and the insurance contract. Any benefits received will be determined under the terms of the Plan in effect at the time eligible employees receive the benefits in question. The operation and administration of the LTD Plan, selection of the insurance carrier, eligibility for the benefits, cost of coverage, eligibility requirements, all terms and conditions related thereto and the resolution of any disputes involving the terms, conditions, interpretation, administration, or benefits payable shall rest with the Company and shall not be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedure set forth in the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
This Memorandum of Agreement is effective on October 27, 2002 and shall expire on October 22, 2005. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement, relating to the Long-Term disability Plan, shall terminate on October 22, 2005 and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
108
109
LUMP SUM PAYMENT OPTION
Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 986 agree to modify the Plan for Hourly Employees' Pension (hereinafter referred to as the Plan). Such modifications are conditional upon the approval from the appropriate Board of Directors and a favorable determination from the Internal Revenue service that the Plan is and continues to be qualified under Section 401(a) of the internal Revenue Code. Therefore, the effective date of January 1,1994 for the following modification will be contingent upon the receipt of the necessary approvals.
Regular employees who are eligible to receive a single life annuity from the Plan will be provided a lump sum payment option which will be based on the present value of their single life annuity.
The amount and availability of benefits under the Plan are governed by the provisions of the Plan and are subject to the Internal Revenue Code and related regulations. Any payments received will be determined under the terms of the Plan in effect at the time regular employees separate from service. The operations and administration of the Plan, the calculation of the lump sum benefit, eligibility requirements, all terms and conditions related thereto and the resolution of any disputes involving the terms, conditions, interpretation, and administration of the Plan shall rest with the Company and shall not be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedure set forth in the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
This Memorandum of Agreement is effective on October 27, 2002 and shall expire on October 22, 2005. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in the Memorandum of Agreement, relating to the lump sum payment option, shall terminate on October 22, 2005 and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement, unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
110
111
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS LOCAL 986
MAIL ORDER PRESCRIPTION PLAN (MOPP)
Effective July 1,2003, Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 986, agree to extend the provisions of the Mail Order Prescription Plan (MOPP) to employees and their eligible dependents enrolled in the Company Medical Plan.
A 90-day prescribed supply of medication will be provided at $5,00 per generic prescription or $15.00 per brand name prescription copayment. This co-payment cannot be reimbursed through the Company Medical Plan and does not apply to deductibles or out-ofpocket maximums. Generic drugs will be provided when available and permissible by law.
Employees and dependents currently covered under the Company Medical Plan will be eligible to participate in the Mail Order Prescription Plan. Once employees (who are covered under the Company Medical Plan) retire, they and their eligible dependents may continue to participate in this Mail Order Prescription Plan on the same basis as active employees. MOPP is not available to participants in Health Maintenance Organizations (HMO's) and/or participants in a Point of Service (POS) Medical Plan.
MOPP will be administered solely in accordance with its provisions, and no matter concerning MOPP or any difference arising thereunder shall be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedure of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. The selection of the MOPP Carrier, the administration of MOPP and all of the terms and conditions relating thereto, and the resolution of any disputes involving the terms, conditions, interpretation, or administration shall be determined by and at the sole discretion of the Company.
The Company shall have the right to amend MOPP in any way, including the selection of the MOPP Carrier. However, any amendment diminishing the level of benefits contained in this
112
Memorandum of Agreement or increasing the cost per prescription to the employee/dependent will be limited to those changes applicable to salaried employees.
This Memorandum of Agreement is effective on December 21, 2002
and shall expire on October 22,2005. The parties specifically agree
that the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of
Agreement, including the Mail Order Prescription Plan, shall also
terminate on October 22, 2005 and shall not survive the expiration of
this Memorandum of Agreement unless agreed to by the parties in
writing.
113
NETWORK ASSISTANT
Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 986 agree to the following:
1. The title of Network Assistant will be responsible for providing assistance to the central office based CZTI switch technician in the installation, operation, and maintenance of communications equipment such as digital and analog carrier and switching systems, microwave and associated equipment, trunking equipment, fiber optics systems, alarm systems, test equipment, etc. This title is also responsible for providing assistance in the repair of such equipment and systems.
2. This title is intended to be an entry level developmental position for new direct hires or existing employees that wish to be "ready now" candidates for central office based CZT I technical positions within Network Operations. Employees in this title shall be awarded the respective higher classification automatically should the time in the Network Assistant title exceed a maximum of twenty-four (24) consecutive months of accredited service and the employee has successfully completed all appropriate training, CZT I prerequisite testing, and performance requirements. Staffing of the Network Assistant title is intended for workforce augmentation and not as a substitute for CO based CZT I replacement openings. An employee in the Network Assistant title will be afforded no more than two (2) opportunities to successfully complete the prerequisite CZT i testing in order to be placed in the higher classification. Provisions for those employees that are unsuccessful in meeting expectations as outlined are detailed in item 4 of this document.
3. Employees in the Network Assistant title will be placed in Wage Schedule N-8. Since this title is intended to be a developmental position, employees in the Network Assistant title may not bid on other job opportunities unless they are subject to force adjustment. Upon successful completion of all training, testing, and performance
114
requirements, and the passing of the required tests for the CZTI position, the employee will be awarded the position of central office based Customer Zone Technician I. The location will be determined by the Company, with input from the employee, based upon availability and service requirements.
4. If an employee in the Network Assistant title is a direct hire and is unable to successfully meet expectations as outlined, the employee will be released from employment with the Company. Employees released as outlined in the forgoing will have no recourse through the grievance and/or arbitration process as outlined in the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
An existing employee who accepts the Network Assistant title and is unsuccessful in meeting expectations as outlined shall be returned to his/her previous position and reporting location, if available. Should the previous position not be available for any reason, the employee may be placed into any other vacancy for which he/she is qualified as determined by the Company. Being qualified includes successfully passing any required job test associated with the position. Should the employee be unsuccessful in obtaining a position, the employee will be released from the Company.
5. Network Assistant positions will be filled according to the Job Application Procedures outlined in Article 8. Candidates for these positions will be required to pass appropriate testing for this position as determined by Verizon.
6. This Memorandum of Agreement is effective on October 27, 2002 and shall expire on October 22, 2005. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement shall also terminate on October 22,2005 and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
115
VERIZON NORTH INC. (NORTH CENTRAL REGION)/GTE COMPANIES
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCAL 986 (IBEW)
NEUTRALITY AND CONSENT ELECTION
This agreement between Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 986, covers all understandings between the parties concerning union organizing; access to employees and code of conduct applicable to union organizing efforts.
The Union and the Company recognize that it is in their mutual interest to enhance the success and image of the Company, to acknowledge the Union as a valued partner, and to foster the pride and commitment of the employees. The parties also share the mutual goals of building a world class, high performance enterprise and addressing employment security through business success and employee development. As a means to enhance these goals, the parties will mutually support regulatory and legislative efforts, marketing/sales and service efforts and other business initiatives leading to employment security and Verizon's business success.
The parties also recognize that the Union's goal of growing membership is intrinsically linked to the successful growth of the business. In order to maintain this perspective and to avoid unnecessary confrontation, the parties agree that the following principles regarding Neutrality and Consent election will be applicable to Verizon's former "GTE Network Services Companies" (Incumbent Local Exchange Carriers and Logistics). This shall be the exclusive means by which the Union, their locals, or individuals acting on their behalf, will conduct an effort to organize eligible employees in the covered Verizon's former "GTE Network Services Companies" (Incumbent Local Exchange Carriers and Logistics) as defined by the National Labor Relations Act.
1. Employee Choice
Both the Union and the Company support and agree with the principle that the decision as to whether or not to become represented by a union is one that does not belong to either the Union or to the Company. Rather, it is an individual decision that belongs to the employee. With the
116
parties' mutual recognition of this fundamental tenet, the following provisions are intended to establish, encourage and nurture an environment during a union organizing drive that will allow employees to choose whether or not to become represented in a fully informed and uncoerced manner. All negotiations concerning appropriate unit, access, conduct and voting will be performed by Verizon Labor Relations staff in conjunction with local management and designated Union representatives.
Neutrality
The Company and the Union agree that an organizing drive will be met by a neutral position by the Company. This statement is consistent with and reinforces the previously established principle of employee choice. It should follow that an environment intended to foster employee choice would be a neutral environment and that information communicated by either party would be fact based and not misleading, distorted or disparaging. Neutrality means the following:
(a) Management will not be anti-Union nor will the Union be anti-
management.
(b) Management will not advocate that employees should not vote
for a Union to represent them.
(c) The Unions will be afforded reasonable opportunities for access
to employees to get their message communicated.
(d) Management will respond to employee questions and is
obligated to correct inaccurate or misunderstood information by
employees.
(e) The Union(s) will be referred to by name and will not be
characterized as a "third party" or "outsider".
(f)
Any written information distributed to employees by either party
relative to the organizing campaign will be shared with the other. The parties1 communications with employees will be shared
with the other. The parties' communications with employees
will be in accordance with this agreement.
(g) Neither party will hire consultants who encourage an adversarial
relationship.
(h) Neither managers nor Union representatives will be personally
attacked.
(i)
Neither the Union nor the Company will be attacked as
institutions.
(j)
The Company will not conduct meetings for the sole purpose of
--
In the alternative, the Company and the Union agree to use a process that is called "Consent Election". This process will work as follows:
(1) As part of the access discussions, the parties agree to use "Consent Election".
(2) The Union shall initiate the consent election process by providing to a TPN proof of support by means of show of interest cards from 50% + 1 of the employees in the unit. The TPN will then notify Verizon Labor Relations Staff and request a list of names, job titles and home addresses. The Company will furnish the list within five working days. The Union will also be furnished with the list. The "show of interest" cards will clearly state their purpose and that a secret ballot consent election will be conducted to determine the will of the unit. If the TPN determines that the Union has a sufficient show of interest, he/she will schedule a Consent Election process in accordance with this agreement.
(3) The election process will be supervised by a mutually selected TPN, whose role is to ensure the integrity of the process itself, and will be conducted within two weeks of the submission of the Union's show of interest to the TPN. Employees will be asked to express their individual preference in a manner that will ensure that their choice will not be known to either party. The TPN will count the votes and advise the parties of the outcome. Consistent with this agreement, a vote of 50% + 1 of those who vote will control. The parties may have an observer present when the TPN counts the ballots.
(4) In all cases, the election process shall take place within 14 days of receipt and verification of the Union's show of interest cards by the TPN. In those cases where there is no dispute about the composition of the unit, the election process will be held within seven days. The election may be held at the Company location or at a neutral site as agreed by the parties. The cost of using a neutral site will be split equally by the parties.
If there is a dispute as to composition of the unit, the TPN shall decide the issue within an additional seven days.
119
Access Agreement
As soon as reasonably practicable after a request by the IBEW for access, Verizon Labor Relations staff, in conjunction with focal management and IBEW representatives, will meet to discuss the details related to reasonable access to the unit by the IBEW representatives. The Union will be allowed reasonable opportunities for access to Verizon facilities. It is the intent and commitment of Verizon and the IBEW that the access agreed upon will not interfere with the operation and other normal and routine business activities, plans and programs of Verizon generally, and specifically, the selected unit. Access agreed upon will be in non-working areas and during employee non-working times. Agreements as to eventful access, such as access to conference rooms, will be reasonable in length and there will be reasonable periods between requests for eventful access. However, an uneventful access, such as prearranged meeting with an individual employee, will not be affected.
If Verizon and the IBEW are unable to agree on reasonable access, the TPN will be asked to resolve the issue. Successful access agreements utilized at other units will be looked to for guidance as to what works and is reasonable. Verizon and the IBEW commit that they will reach such an access agreement in each instance in an expeditious manner.
Dispute Resolution
Questions or disputes arising during the course of an organizing
effort within a particular unit of non-represented employees will,
in all cases, be addressed first by and between the parties
themselves and, in particular, Labor Relations Staff in
conjunction with local Verizon management and appropriate
IBEW representatives. It is the intent and desire of Verizon and
the IBEW that such matters are dealt with by and between the
parties themselves, particularly at the local level, without having
to resort to the assistance of a third party. It is also agreed,
however, that if every good faith and reasonable effort has been
made, but the matter remains unresolved, the process described
below will be utilized.
(b) The TPN will resolve disputes in the manner set forth in this agreement. Either Verizon or the IBEW can refer a question or dispute, unresolved after good faith efforts have been made to resolve the dispute locally, to the chosen TPN by providing three working days' written notice to both the other party and the TPN. The notice will provide concise statement of the question or dispute to be addressed and a statement that the parties have attempted in good faith but have been unable to resolve the matter by and between them.
(c)
If the question or dispute involves a matter related to access
120
(i.e., the nature, event, time, location, individuals involved, etc.) the TPN will fully investigate all relevant facts surrounding the question or dispute. The TPN will then call the parties together and attempt to facilitate resolution of or otherwise mediate the matter.
If, after a good attempt at facilitated resolution or mediation, the access question or dispute is still not resolved, the TPN will attempt to render an immediate decision, which includes a method or alternative methods of resolving the perceived problem. However, in no event will the TPN take longer than five days thereafter to render a decision. The decision of the TPN will be final and binding and the parties agree to abide by his/her decision. This process, from the time the TPN is contacted to the time his or her opinion is issued, will not take more than 15 days unless the parties agree otherwise.
If the dispute involves the appropriateness of the bargaining unit the Union seeks to organize and the parties are unable to agree, after negotiating in good faith for a reasonable time, upon the description of an appropriate unit for bargaining, the issue of the description of such unit shall be submitted to TPN and a hearing shall be conducted consistent with the rules of the American Arbitration Association. The TPN shall be confined solely to the determination of the appropriate unit for bargaining and shall be guided in such deliberations by the statutory requirements of the National Labor Relations Act and the decisions of the NLRB and Appellate reviews of such Board decisions.
Regardless of the type of question or dispute that is submitted to the TPN, the parties will each be given a full opportunity to present their positions and supporting factual information prior to the issuance of any opinion. No written briefs will be submitted. There shall be no ex parte contact with the TPN without the concurrence of all parties. Verizon and IBEW believe that matters pertaining to these values are best handled by and between the parties themselves and resort to a TPN should be necessary in only a limited number of cases.
Verizon and the IBEW agree that the parties may distribute a decision of the TPN to employees in the selected unit but not outside to the public such as the press.
The parties agree that the process set forth herein shall be the exclusive means for resolving disputes covered by this dispute resolution process, and neither party will utilize any other forum (e.g. NLRB, federal court, etc.) to address issues subject to resolution pursuant to this process.
121
(g) All expenses, resulting from the use of the TPN process, shall be split equally by Verizon and IBEW.
9.
Acquisitions and Ventures
The parties recognize the rapidly changing nature and structure of the communications industry, Verizon may acquire (or be acquired by) another entity. It has and may in the future form joint ventures or strategic alliances, may license its brand or technology, or may be a financial investor in other entities. The employees in those entities may be non-represented, represented in whole or in the part of the IBEW, or represented in whole or in part by some other labor organization. It is not possible to structure a single rule which will apply to all such circumstances and the Company cannot compel other entities to abide by this agreement
10. Duration
This MOA shall be effective October 27, 2002, and shall remain in effect until October 22, 2005,
Internationa! Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 986
122
ORDER CLERK DIFFERENTIAL
A seventy-five cents ($.75) per hour Order Clerk differential will apply to hours worked by an employee during the time an employee is coordinating special service circuit orders. There shall be no pyramiding of differential rates.
This Memorandum of Agreement is effective upon ratification and shall expire on October 22, 2005. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement shall also expire on October 22, 2005, and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement, unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
--
PERSONAL LINES OF INSURANCE
1. Effective July 1, 2000, Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) agrees to make available, without endorsement, the opportunity for regular full or part-time hourly employees of the Company who are covered by the Collective Bargaining Agreement to purchase automobile, home and other personal property and casualty insurance through payroll deduction.
2. Personal Lines of Insurance will be administered solely in accordance with its provisions, and no matter concerning Personal Lines of Insurance or any differences arising thereunder shall be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedure of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. The administration of Personal Lines of Insurance and all the terms and conditions relating thereto, and the resolution of any disputes involving the terms, conditions, interpretation, administration, or benefits payable shall be determined by and at the sole discretion of the Insurance Carrier.
3. The Company reserves the right at any time, and from time to time, to modify or amend in whole or part, any and all provisions of the agreement with the Insurance Carrier, to change Insurance Carriers, or to terminate the agreement with the Insurance Carrier.
4. This Memorandum of Agreement is effective October 27, 2002, and shall expire on October 22, 2005. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement, including Personal Lines of Insurance, shall also terminate on October 22, 2005, and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
131
MetPay Program
The MetPay program is provided by Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company and affiliates, Warwick, Rhode Island, a subsidiary of Metropolitan Life Insurance Company. The MetPay program is a voluntary program which allows employees to purchase Automobile Insurance, Homeowner Insurance, Renter's Insurance, Excess Personal Liability, and other personal property insurance through payroll deduction. The MetPay program offers group discounts to Verizon employees. The amount of the discount is governed by the state insurance regulations. Therefore, the discount varies by state. The program is administered by Metropolitan Property and Casualty. Verizon will deduct the premiums from the employee's paycheck as directed by Metropolitan. All administrative questions, claims, and questions should be directed to Metropolitan at 1-800-GET MET1 (438-6381) orwww.met.pav.com. The employees can also contact Metropolitan by calling the Verizon Benefits Center at 1-800-GTE-BENS (483-2367). The call will be transferred to a Metropolitan Representative. The Verizon Benefits Center can not answer any questions regarding the MetPay program. The program is portable. Employees retiring from Verizon under the terms of the Verizon pension plans will retain the group discounts they had as an employee. Employees who terminate will retain the group discounts they had as an employee until the renewal date for the policy. On the renewal date, the premiums will be recalculated using Metropolitan's retail customer rates.
132
POINT OF SERVICE MEDICAL PLAN (POS)
1. Effective July 1, 1997, Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 986 agree to implement the Point of Service Medical Plan (the Plan) set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement.
2. For a summary of details, refer to the attachment entitled Point of Service Medical Plan.
3. Some of the major provisions include:
Where feasible, a network of managed care providers will be
established to provide benefits as outlined in "In-Network HMO".
Employees who reside or work in a Network Area and opt to use
non-network providers, will receive benefits as outlined in "Out-
of-Network" benefits.
C.
Employees who reside or work outside any and all "Network
Areas" will receive benefits as outlined in "Out-of-Area" (PPO)
benefits, unless they opt to utilize services in an established
"Network Area".
D.
First dollar deductible on all Point of Service Medical Plan
benefits, where applicable.
E.
Maintenance of Benefits will be permitted to the level of benefits
provided in the Point of Service Medical Plan where applicable.
Mental Health and Substance Abuse Benefits as outlined in the
Point of Service Medical Plan.
G. Coverage under the Plan begins ninety (90) days following the
133
date of hire or date which the employee enrolls whichever is later.
4. The Point of Service Medical Plan will be administered solely in accordance with its provisions, and no matter concerning the Point of Service Medical Plan or any difference arising thereunder shall be subject to the Grievance-Arbitration Procedure of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. The selection of the Health Care Plan Administrator, the administration of the Point of Service Medical Plan and all the terms, conditions, interpretation, administration or benefits payable shall be determined by and at the sole discretion of the Company.
5. This Memorandum of Agreement is effective on December 21, 2002 and shall expire October 22, 2005. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in the Memorandum of Agreement, including the Point of Service Medical Plan, shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
134
GTE / INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS POS / PPO MEDICAL PLANS SUMMARY - POINT OF SERVICE MEDICAL PLAN
ANNUAL DEDUCTIBLE
PER PERSON - ANNUAL OUT OF POCKET
MAXIMUM BENEFIT Per Person - Annual Per Person - Lifetime
INPATIENT HOSPITAL Hospital Days, as preauthorized Diagnostics, e.g. Lab, X-ray, etc. Drugs, Medications and Radiotherapy Intensive and Coronary Care Units Medical Services
Necessary Specialist Care/Consultations Operating and Recovery Rooms Anesthesia Special Duty Nursing
SURGERY - Medically Necessary Procedures Physician's Office Inpatient Hospital Outpatient Hospital
PHYSICIAN'S OFFICE Doctor's Visits Illness or Injury Visits to PCP
Consult/Treatment by a Specialist Physician Lab, X-Ray and Other Diagnostic Procedures Allergy Testing Allergy Injections and Serum
Point-of-Service HMO
In-Network
Out-oT-Network
No Deductible
$295 per individual $590 per individual + 1 $885 per family
No maximum limit
$1,750 per individual $3,500 per individual + 1 $5,250 per family
No maximum limit No maximum limit
No maximum limit $2,000,000
No charge No charge No charge No charge No charge No charge No charge No charge No charge
70% R&C after deductible 70% R&C after deductible 70% R&C after deductible 70% R&C after deductible 70% R&C after deductible 70% R&C after deductible 70% R&C after deductible 70% R&C after deductible 70% R&C after deductible
$15 co-pay No charge No charge
$15 co-pay $15 co-pay $15 co-pay No charge $15 co-pay $15 co-pay
70% R&C after deductible 70% R&C after deductible 70% R&C after deductible
70% R&C after deductible 70% R&C after deductible 70% R&C after deductible 70% R&C after deductible 70% R&C after deductible 70% R&C after deductible
Out-of-Area PPO
$150 per individual $300 per individual + 1 $450 per family
$1,500 per individual $3,000 per individual + 1 $4,500 per family
80% R&C after ded. ;70% Non PPO 80% R&C after ded. ;70% Non PPO 80% R&C after ded.;70% Non PPO 80% R&C after ded.;70% Non PPO 80% R&C after ded. ;70% Non PPO 80% R&C after ded. ;70% Non PPO 80% R&C after ded. ;70% Non PPO 80% R&C after ded. ;70% Non PPO 80% R&C after ded ;70% Non PPO
80% R&C after ded.;70% Non PPO 80% R&C after ded.;70% Non PPO 80% R&C after ded.;70% Non PPO
80% R&C after ded ;70% Non PPO 80% R&C after ded. ;70% Non PPO 80% R&C after ded ;70% Non PPO 80% R&C after ded ;70% Non PPO 80% R&C after ded. ;70% Non PPO 80% R&C after ded. ;70% Non PPO
135
PREVENTIVE CARE SERVICES
Routine Immunizations Well-Baby Care Examination Annual Well-Woman Examination Annual Physical Exam
Out-of-Network
$15 co-pay
Not covered
70% R&C after deductible
$15 co-pay $15 co-pay
Not covered Not covered
MATERNITY CARE - Physicians Office
Prenatal and Postnatal Visits
Physician's Care to the Mother - Inpatient Hospital
Mother's Delivery Services Newborn Nursery Services Physician's Care to Newborn
Covered in full after 1st $15 copay $15 per visit
No charge No charge No charge
EMERGENCY & URGENT CARE (Accident or Sudden Serious lliness or injury)
Required Advanced Authorization Hospital Emergency Room Services
Urgent Care Centers Physician's Office (normal hours) Physician's Office (after hours)
Contact PCP within 24 hours $50 co-pay (waived if admitted to hospital) $25 co-pay $15 co-pay $15 co-pay
Contact PCP within 24 hours 70% R&C after deductible
SKILLED NURSING CARE
--
136
Out-of-Area PPO 80% R&C after ded.;70% Non PPO 80% R&C after ded.; 70%Non PPO (No ded) 80% R&C after ded.;70% Non PPO Not covered
80% R&C after ded.; 70% Non PPO 80% R&C after ded.; 70% Non PPO 80% R&C after ded.; 70% Non PPO 80% R&C after ded.; 70% Non PPO 80% R&C after ded.; 70% Non PPO
Contact PCP within 24 hours 80% R&C after ded.; 70% Non PPO 80% R&C after ded.; 70% Non PPO 80% R&C after ded.; 70% Non PPO 80% R&C after ded.; 70% Non PPO 80% R&C after ded.; 70% Non PPO
80% R&C after ded.; 70% Non PPO 80% R&C after ded.; 70% Non PPO 80% R&C after ded.; 70% Non PPO 80% R&C after ded.; 70% Non PPO Not covered
PHYSICAL THERAPY
$15 co-pay; limited to 60 visits
combined
(limited to 60 visits)
Out-of-Area PPO 80% R&C after ded.; 70% Non PPO (limited to 60 visit)
PRESCRIPTION DRUGS Mai! Order Service: 90 day supply Local Pharmacy Network: 30 day supply
$7 co-pay; + difference for brand $7 co-pay; + difference for brand 80% R&C after ded; 70% Non PPO $7 co-pay; + difference for brand $7 co-pay; + difference for brand 80% R&C after ded; 70% Non PPO
Insulin & Syringes Birth Control
VOLUNTARY STERILIZATION
$7 co-pay; + difference for brand $7 co-pay; + difference for brand
No charge
80% R&C after ded; 70% Non PPO 80% R&C after ded; 70% Non PPO
80% R&C after ded; 70% Non PPO
ARTIFICIAL INSEMINATION
50% co-pay; no limit
IN-VITRO FERTILIZATION
DURABLE MEDICAL EQUIPMENT (As determined to be medically necessary, examples include Hospital Beds, Wheel Chairs, Prosthetic Devices)
80% R&C after ded.; 70% Non PPO
CHIROPRACTOR SERVICES
MENTAL HEALTH/and SUBSTANCE ABUSE CARE Inpatient Hospital
$15 co-pay; limited to 12 visits combined
70% R&C after ded; limited to $10,000/yr
Covered in full; limited 30 days combined
45 days per calendar year - $100% $0 Outside VZ Standard MH/SA Network
Partial hospitalization - 1 0 0 % Up to 90 days per year for intensive outpatient therapy (2 days Intensive outpatient In lieu of 1 day inpatient care) $0 Outside VZ Standard MH/SA Network
Outpatient
$15 co-pay; limited to 50 visits combined.
70% R&C after ded; limited to 50 visits.
100% after $15 co-payment per visit Up to 50 visits per calendar year $0 Outside VZ Standard MH/SA Network
137
Outpatient (Cont'd.) Supplemental Benefit
Out of Network
Note: Employees must call Managed Health Network (MHN) at 1-800-777-7991 prior to routine care and within 48 hours of emergency care.
Substance Abuse Programs
Two Inpatient or Outpatient substance abuse programs per lifetime per covered person
Annual maximums outlined above are exceeded 50% of covered charges up to lifetime Medical Plan maximum of $2,000,000 $0 Outside VZ Standard MH/SA Network
See Above
DENTAL CARE
No dental coverage under medical plan
DEFINITION OF DEPENDENTS
Same
Spouse
Dependent children until they marry or reach age 19; or age 25 if they are full-time students at an accredited secondary school, college, university or nursing school and the child is unmarried & dependent on the employee for care & support. Full-time student coverage is to be to age 25 or for six months after leaving school, whichever is earlier.
Dependent children beyond age 25 who have a physical or mental condition that prevents them from working.
138
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT between
PRESCRIPTION IDENTIFICATION CARD (PIC)
Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) and the International
Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 986, agree to offer the
Prescription Identification Card, effective July 1, 2003, for employees
and their eligible dependents enrolled in the Company Medical Plan.
Once employees (who are covered under the Company Medical Plan)
retire, they and their eligible dependents may continue to participate
in this PIC plan on the same basis as active employees. PIC is not
available to participants in Health Maintenance Organizations (HMO's)
and Point of Service (POS) plans.
Effective July 1, 2003, eligible employees may purchase prescription
medications from participating network pharmacies at a Verizon
discounted rate. Employees will be responsible for the twenty (20)
percent (%) co-payment required by the Comprehensive Medical Plan.
Effective January 1, 2004, eligible employees may purchase
prescription medications from participating network pharmacies at a
Verizon discounted rate. Employees who use participating network
pharmacies will have an annual $25.00 deductible and a twenty (20)
percent (%) co-payment.
Effective January 1, 2004, eligible employees purchasing prescription
medications from non-network pharmacies will have an annual $75.00
deductible and a twenty (20) percent (%) co-payment.
The deductible and co-payment do not apply to the deductible or out-
of-pocket maximums of the Comprehensive Medical Plan. The out-of-
pocket maximum for PIC is $300 per person.
PIC will be administered solely in accordance with its provisions and
no matter concerning PIC or any difference arising thereunder shall
be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedure of the Collective
Bargaining Agreement The selection of the PIC carrier, the
administration of PIC and all of the terms and conditions relating
139
thereto, and the resolution of any disputes involving the terms, conditions, interpretation, or administration shall be determined by and at the sole discretion of the Company.
The Company shall have the right to amend PIC in any way, including
the selection of the PIC carrier. However, any amendment
diminishing the level of benefits contained in this Memorandum of
Agreement or increasing the cost per prescription to the
employee/dependent will be limited to those changes applicable to
salaried employees.
and shall expire on October 22, 2005. The parties specifically agree
--
RETAIL SALES CONSULTANT COMPENSATION PLAN
Effective October 27, 2002, Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local No. 986 agree to provide the Retail Sales Consultants the opportunity to participate in a Sales Incentive Compensation Plan with the following administrative guidelines for application of the plan:
1. All regular full-time and regular part-time Retail Sales Consultants assigned to a Marketing Verizon Plus will be eligible.
2. The Company shall have the responsibility to establish and administer the standards to be used.
3. The Company reserves the right to adjust standards as needed to ensure equitable treatment of all parties. Any adjustment in goals will be communicated to the affected employees and the Union no less than thirty (30) days in advance of any change.
4. Any dispute as to whether an employee is paid in accordance with the terms of the plan will be subject to the grievance (and arbitration) procedure(s).
5. The Company agrees to provide the following data to the Union when necessary to resolve such questions as may arise under paragraph 4 above:
a.
Individual employee's worked hours for the month.
b.
The total worked hours for all eligible employees in the Verizon
Plus.
c.
The employee's monthly incentive compensation payment.
d.
The employee's goal.
147
6. It is understood by both parties that there is no guarantee of incentive earnings under the plan.
This Agreement shall remain in effect through the life of the current Agreement subject to termination by thirty (30) day written notice to the Union.
GTE North Incorporated (Northeast Region)
Mary J. Darling Regional Manager Labor Relations
--
RETIREE LIFE INSURANCE
Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers agree to make available to employees who retire on or after July 1,1997 with a service or disability pension under the GTE Pension Plan, a $5,000 retiree life insurance benefit. For employees who retire on or after July 1, 2003 with a service or disability pension under the GTE Pension Plan, a $10,000 retiree life insurance benefit will be available.
This Memorandum of Agreement is effective on October 27, 2002 and shall expire on October 22,2005. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement, including the Retiree Life Insurance benefit, shall also terminate on October 22, 2005 and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
149
REVISED TITLES/FORCE ADJUSTMENT
This memorandum sets forth the understanding of the parties in regard to job titles which were changed November 25, 1990 and in subsequent labor agreements.
1) Employees who are laid off in the future and who would have bumping rights to job titles included in contracts expiring after November 24,1990 shall have bumping rights to any equivalent new job titles established.
--
TEAM PERFORMANCE AWARD
Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) and the Internationa! Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 986 agree to develop and implement a Team Performance Award which will provide participating employees the opportunity to earn compensation based upon collective/team performance results.
ELIGIBILITY
All full-time and part-time regular hourly employees are eligible to receive an award if they are on a TPA team for 30 calendar days or more. Employees on other Incentive plans are not eligible, i.e., BSG, Consumer Sales, Retail, LiveSource.
AWARDS
Awards are based on performance toward objectives over the period of a calendar year. An award amount is determined for the applicable calendar year, a percentage of which may be earned by eligible employees, depending on team performance during that calendar year. The payout ranges from 0% to 120% of an established target.
The range of the Team Performance Award payout is as follows:
The 2002 target award is 4% payable in April 2003. The range is
0% to 120% based on achievement of objectives.
The 2003 target award is 4% payable in April 2004. The range is
The 2004 target award is 4% payable in April 2005. The range is
The payout percentage is applied to an employee's highest hourly basic rate of pay during the 26 pay periods of the calendar year.
Employees transferring between teams shall have their award prorated according to the time on each team.
In the event of reorganization which results in employees changing teams, awards shall be prorated based upon each team's performance.
An employee who resigns, is laid off, terminated, dies or retires during the calendar year is eligible for a prorated Team Performance Award if all other eligibility requirements have been met.*
* In case of Termination for Cause the individual situation will be
152
--
Excused time off for union activity will be counted as time worked when computing Team Performance Awards.
5. BENEFITS TREATMENT
Team Performance Award payments are recognized in the calculation of Pension Plan benefits, Group Life Insurance, and the Hourly Savings Plan. Such payments will be applicable in the year payment is received. This is in accordance with benefit plan definitions.
All other benefits are in accordance with the collective bargaining agreement and are based on rates shown in the hourly wage schedules.
6. TAXES. PERSONAL ALLOTMENT
Deductions for federal, state and local tax liabilities will be made in accordance with lump sum distribution tax laws.
Personal allotments such as savings bonds, and United Way contributions will not be made.
7. OVERTIME
The Team Performance Award payouts are for hours worked and must be included in overtime payments.
The overtime payment will be calculated as follows:
The Team Performance Award payout divided by the total hours worked equals the award hourly rate. This rate is then multiplied times .5 x number of overtime hours in the same calendar year for which the Team Performance Award was paid. The result of this calculation is the award overtime payment due the employee.
153
EXAMPLE:
Team Performance Award divided by
Total Hours Worked
Equals Award Hourly Rate
Times Overtime Rate (1/2)
Equals Hourly Overtime Rate of Pay
Times Total Overtime Hours
Equals Award Overtime Payment
$ 500 1,800
$ 0.2659 0.5
$ 0.1329 100
$ 13.29
The overtime-incentive payment is not included in benefit plan calculations.
A Team Performance Award overtime payment will be included in the award payout.
OBJECTIVE/MEASURES
All hourly employees will normally be assigned to teams based on their functional area of responsibility. Teams may consist of a few employees or many.
Each team will be given a set of objectives linked to, but not limited to, one or more of these performance areas:
- Quality/Value of services delivered - Productivity - Expense Budget
- Revenue
Teams that satisfy a minimum level of performance will receive an incentive payment. If that minimum level of performance is exceeded, the incentive payment will be larger. Each member of a team will receive the same percentage of target award that the team achieved. An example would be as follows:
--
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCAL 986 VISION PLAN
Effective July 1,2003 Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) and
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 986 agree to
implement the provisions of the Vision Plan set forth in this
Memorandum of Agreement
For a summary of details, refer to the attachment entitled Vision
Plan Highlights.
Some of the major provisions include:
--
Employees are automatically eligible for the Vision Plan after
enrollment in any Verizon medical option. If the employee waives
Verizon medical coverage, the employee will not be enrolled in the
Vision Plan.
The cost of the Vision Plan coverage will be paid by the Company.
The amount and availability of benefits under the Vision Plan are
governed by the provisions of the Plan and the insurance contract.
Any benefits received will be determined under the terms of the
Plan in effect at the time eligible employees receive the benefits in
question. The operation and administration of the Vision Plan,
selection of the insurance carrier, eligibility for the benefits,
eligibility requirements, all terms and conditions related thereto and
the resolution of any disputes involving Vision Plan terms,
conditions, interpretation, administration or benefits payable shall
rest with the Company and shall not be subject to the grievance or
arbitration procedures set forth in the Collective Bargaining
Agreement.
160
7. This Memorandum of Agreement is effective on October 27, 2002, and shall expire on October 22, 2005. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement, relating to the Vision Plan, shall terminate on October 22, 2005 and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
161
VISION PLAN HIGHLIGHTS
Feature
Participating Provider
Non-participating Provider
Annual Deductible Eye Exam (Once every 12 months)
Lenses and Frames (Once every 24 months)*
_ Contact Lenses (Once every 24 months)*
None You pay the network provider a $25 co-payment.
No claim filing is required.
You pay the network provider a $75 co-payment for lenses and frames or $37.50 for just lenses or frames.
You pay nothing for standardwear, soft, daily-wear, or disposable contact lenses.
None You pay the expense in full and file a claim with Davis Vision.
The Plan reimburses you up to $25. You pay the expense in full and file a claim with Davis Vision.
The Plan reimburses you up to $25 for lenses and $25 for frames for a maximum reimbursement of $50. You pay the expense in full and file a claim with Davis Vision.
Discounts available for
The Plan reimburses you up
replacement lenses.
to $50.
Laser Vision
Discounts available.
No discounts available.
Correction
* Limited to one pair of prescription eyeglasses or one pair of prescription contact lenses
every 24 months.
Out-of-Area Provisions Steps to find an Out-of-Area Provider: 1. Call Davis Vision when ready to schedule an appointment for services. The number
for Davis Vision can be obtained from the Verizon Benefits Center. 2. Ask the Member Service Associate to locate a non-participating provider (NPP) or
give them the name and address of a local provider. 3. Davis Vision will contact the provider to arrange in-network vision care services for
you and will contact you with an authorization to receive your services. 4. Employee will receive the participating provider benefits.
162
Professional Provider Services Standards of care for eye examinations are entirely consistent with those established by State Departments of Health and include preventive eye care with glaucoma testing, refractive care and the prescribing of eyeglasses. Each patient receives a comprehensive eye examination with a preferred optometrist or ophthalmologist which includes the following components:
Case History - chief complaint, eye and vision history, medical history Entrance distance acuities External ocular evaluation including slit lamp examination Internal ocular examination inclusive of dilated fundus evaluation Tonometry Distance refraction - objective and subjective Binocular coordination and ocular motility evaluation Evaluation of pupillary function Biomicroscopy Gross visual fields Assessment and plan Patient education Form completion - school, motor vehicle, etc. All of these components are fully within the education, training and scope of licensure for both optometrists and ophthalmologists.
163
VOLUNTARY EMPLOYEE BENEFICIARY ASSOCIATION (VEBA)
Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 986 hereby mutually agree to the establishment of an Internal Revenue Code section 501 (c) (9) trust (also known as Voluntary Employees Beneficiary Association trust) to provide for the payment of medical or other permissible welfare benefits and administrative service costs for eligible employees who retire between November 25, 1990 and October 22, 2005 with a service or disability pension under the Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) Pension Plan and their beneficiaries (hereinafter referred to as the Eligible Participants). This trust is being established to provide benefit security for the term of this Memorandum of Agreement.
The funding and operation of this trust will be determined by the
Company based on reasonable financial standards (and where
applicable, regulatory approval for recovery).
The Company agrees that funds placed into this trust will be used
exclusively to pay for the benefits and administrative costs described
below or for any other purpose permitted by law.
Effective July 1,1997, the level and type of Retiree Medical Benefits for
the Eligible Participants shall be governed by the GTE RETIREE
OPTIONS Summary Plan Description, which may be amended or
discontinued by the Company at its discretion subject to paragraph 8
below.
In order to receive Retiree Medical Benefits, the retiree must pay a
percentage of the Retiree Medical premium ("Retiree Contribution
Percentage"). Similarly, the Company will pay a percentage of the
premium ("Company Contribution Percentage"), subject to Section 5
below. During the term of this Memorandum of Agreement, the Company
and Retiree Contribution Percentages will be based on the following
contribution:
164
Years of Accredited Service at Retirement
Percent of Health Care Premium Paid by Retiree
Less than 10 10 to 14 15 to 19 20 to 24 25 to 29
30 and over
100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 10%
(a) The Company shall determine the cost of providing Retiree Medical coverage ("Retiree Medical Benefits Premiums"). Further, it is the Company's intention to cap the amount it pays toward such Retiree Medical Benefits Premiums for employees who retire on or after July 1, 1997.
(b) When the Retiree Medical Benefits Premiums for the $350 deductible coverage option under GTE RETIREE OPTIONS reach the figures set forth in the chart below ("Capped Retiree Medical Benefits Premiums"), the Company Contribution Amount shall be capped and the Company shall make no additional contributions towards Retiree Medical Benefits Premiums.
Coverage Category
Capped Retiree Medical Benefits Premium
Retiree only (primary coverage) Retiree plus one dependant coverage Family coverage Medicare covered retiree
(per eligible life)
$ 6,314 $ 12,628 $ 14,144 $ 1,642
(c) The Maximum Company Contribution Amount applicable to each Coverage Category shall be determined by multiplying the applicable Company Contribution Percentage times the Capped retiree Medical Benefits Premium as set forth above for that coverage. The applicable Maximum Company Contribution Amount shall not increase when the Retiree Medical Benefits Premium exceeds the amount set forth in the chart above.
In order to receive Retiree Medical Benefits, the retiree must pay the Company the amount the Retiree Medical Premium exceeds the Company Contribution Amount as described in paragraphs 4 and 5 above ("Retiree Contribution Amount"). When the Retiree Medical Benefits Premium reaches or exceeds the Capped Retiree Medical Benefit Premium, the retiree must pay the Company the amount the Retiree Medical Benefits Premium exceeds the Maximum Company Contribution Amount.
165
The Capped Retiree Medical Benefits Premium and the Maximum Company Contribution Amount set forth in paragraph 5 above is based upon the $350 deductible coverage option. If the retiree elects the $150 deductible coverage option, the Retiree Contribution Amount will increase by the amount the $150 deductible coverage option exceeds the $350 deductible coverage option. If the retiree elects the $1000 deductible coverage option, the Retiree Contribution amount will decrease by the amount the $1000 deductible coverage option is less than the $350 deductible coverage option (not to exceed zero). When the Retiree Medical Benefit Premiums for the $350 deductible coverage option reach the amounts set forth in the chart in paragraph 5, the Company Contribution Amount for all coverage options, including the $150 and $1000 deductible coverage options, shall be capped at that time and the Company shall make no additional contributions toward Retiree Medical Benefits.
The Company agrees to notify the Union and to discuss its actions should the Company determine that the funding or operation of the trust and/or applicable sections of this Memorandum of Agreement, other than pooling of claims experience and those sections relating to the level and type of Retiree Medical Benefits, need to be modified or rescinded prior to the expiration of the Articles of Agreement. This notification will take place, in writing, within fifteen calendar days prior to the date of modification or rescission. This notification will specify the cause for and affect of this action. If the parties are unable to reach agreement on such changes, the funding or operation of the trust and/or applicable sections of this Memorandum of Agreement, other than pooling of claims experience and those sections relating to the level and type of Retiree Medical Benefits, will be modified or rescinded at the Company's discretion.
The funding and operation of the trust; the level and administration of the Retiree Medical Benefits; amount or cost of premiums; premium pricing mechanisms; the attainment of the Maximum Company Contribution Amount; the selection of the claims administrator, alternate health carrier or insurance carrier; eligibility for the benefits; all terms and conditions related hereto, and the resolution of any disputes involving the terms, conditions, interpretation, administration, or benefits payable shall rest with the Company and shall not be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedure set forth in the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
This Memorandum of Agreement is effective on October 27, 2002 and shall be in effect for the duration of this Agreement. The parties specifically agree that this Memorandum of Agreement, the Retiree Medical Benefits described herein, and the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement relating to Retiree Medical Benefits, including but not limited to the Maximum Company Contribution Amount and the level and type of Retiree Medical Benefits shall terminate on October 22,2005 and shall not survive the expiration of this
166
Memorandum of Agreement unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
167
VOLUNTARY LAYOFF LEAVE OF ABSENCE
1. Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) and International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 986, agree to the provisions concerning a Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absence set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement.
2. The purpose of a Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absence shall be to provide an alternative method of temporarily adjusting the size of the work force for up to four (4) months in a calendar year. The Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absence would be in lieu of the layoff provisions as provided for in Article 9 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
3. The total period of a Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absence will not exceed four months. Voluntary Layoff Leaves of Absence will be offered by seeking volunteers from the affected classification and reporting location. This will be done at least 30 days prior to the effective date. The decision to offer Voluntary Layoff Leaves of Absence, the time frame or duration of the leave, the number of Voluntary Layoff Leaves of Absence authorized, and the location and the classification affected will be at the sole discretion of Management.
4. If the number of volunteers is not sufficient, Management will then layoff the excess remaining employees in accordance with Article 9 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. If more employees volunteer than needed Management will allow the most senior of the volunteers to take the Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absence.
5. While on a Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absence, eligible employees shall continue to receive Company paid life insurance, medical/dental insurance and telephone concession benefits to the extent provided to active employees.
6. Employees granted a Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absence will be required to take all unused or remaining vacation (or bank if eligible) and personal holiday time prior to the end of the calendar year in which the
168
leave is to begin. In addition, employees will be required to use all vacation time (or bank if eligible) scheduled during the month(s) of the calendar year in which the Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absence ends.
7. All Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absences are without pay and are subject to approval by Management. Application of unemployment compensation will not be contested by the Company.
8. This agreement shall in no way limit Management from using other company employees to perform work assignments of the nature performed previously by an employee who may be on a Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absence.
9. Upon return to work, employees granted a Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absence shall receive accredited service and seniority for the period of the Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absence.
10. At the end of the approved Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absence, employees will be guaranteed reinstatement to a job within their previous classification and reporting location.
11. Employees are required to return to work on the agreed upon date. Failure to return on the expected return date, for other than a personal compelling reason as determined by management, will result in termination of employment. Should an employee be unable to return to work due to personal illness or injury and that illness or injury would be covered by the Company's sickness disability benefits, the employee may apply for sickness disability benefits for the remainder of the time that would normally be covered by sickness disability benefits.
12. Reinstatement is subject to any contractual provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement which covers adjustments to the work force that may have occurred during the Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absence of affected employees.
13. This Memorandum of Agreement is effective September 10, 2002, and shall expire on October 22, 2005.
169
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS Local 986
VOLUNTARY PART-TIME ASSIGNMENT
1. Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) and International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 986 agree to the provisions concerning a Voluntary Part-Time Assignment set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement.
2. The purpose of a Voluntary Part-Time Assignment shall be to provide an alternative method of temporarily adjusting the size of the work force for up to four (4) months in a calendar year. The Voluntary Part-Time Assignment would be in lieu of the layoff provisions as provided for in Article 9 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
3. The total period of a Voluntary Part-Time Assignment will not exceed four months. Voluntary Part-Time Assignments will be offered by seeking volunteers from the affected classification and reporting location. Prior to implementation the Company and the Union will discuss the plan and an alternate plan/solution may be reached by mutual agreement. This will be done at least 30 days prior to the effective date. Ultimately, the decision to offer Voluntary Part-Time Assignments, the time frame or duration of the assignment, the number of Voluntary Part-Time Assignments authorized, and the location and the classification affected will be at the sole discretion of Management.
4. If the number of volunteers is not sufficient, Management will then layoff the excess remaining employees in accordance with Article 9 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement If more employees volunteer than needed Management will allow the most senior of the volunteers to take the Voluntary Part-Time Assignment.
5. While on a Voluntary Part-Time Assignment, eligible employees shall continue to receive Company paid benefits to the extent provided to active full-time employees.
170
6. Part-Time work schedules will be assigned at Management's discretion based on the needs of the service.
7. All Voluntary Part-Time Assignments are subject to approval by Management.
8. This agreement shall in no way limit Management from using other company employees to perform work assignments of the nature performed previously by an employee who may be on a Voluntary Part-Time Assignment.
9. At the end of the approved Voluntary Part-Time Assignment, employees will be returned to a full-time work schedule.
10. Upon returning to a full-time work schedule, employees' service and seniority will not be adjusted due to the Voluntary Part-Time Assignment
Binary file (standard input) matches
