=== HEALTHCARE EXTRACTION: CBA_17 ===
Source: C:/Users/zachary.parolin/INETInequality Dropbox/INET Inequality Team/Projects/LLMs & Inequality/1_CBAs/Cornell Archive/Cornell-RetailEducation/6178_008b184f002_01.pdf
Total document lines: 1947
Extracted healthcare lines: 504
===========================================


PREAMBLE
The Board of Education of Jersey City and the Jersey City Education Association recognize their common goal to be the provision of the finest educa tional opportunities for the boys and girls of the Jersey City Public Schools.
To work toward the attainment of this goal, it is also recognized that the joint efforts of the Board of Education and the Jersey City Education Associa tion are required and that it is essential to ful fillment that they, through their respective repre sentatives, engage in good faith negotiations on matters pertaining to salaries and terms and con ditions of employment.
This Agreement is made and entered into this 30th day of November, 1978, by and between the Jersey City Board of Education, (hereinafter referred to as the "Board" ) -- and the Jersey City Education Association, (hereinafter referred to as the " Asso ciation" or the "JCEA" ) .
CONTENTS
Recognition ............................................................... 1
Individual Grievance Procedure ............................. 2
Successor Agreem ent................................................ 6
Deduction From Salary ........................................ 7
Board Rights and Responsibilities ................. 9
Teacher R ig h ts............................................................. 9
Association R ig h ts......................................................10
Meetings of Principal and J .C .E .A .Directors .. 12
Meetings of Superintendent & J .C .E .A . President 12
Teacher F acilities......................
12
Membership on Board of Personnel Practices . . . . 13
Teacher Evaluation ................................................ 11
Teaching Assignm ents.............................................. 14 Teacher F ile s ........................................................... 16
Teacher Meetings .................................................... 17
Promotions ............................................................... 17
Transfers..................................................................... 19
Student Discipline.............
--
Coaches ................................................................... 28
Health Insurance .................................................... 29
Academic Freedom ................................................ 30
Specialists ............................................................... 31
Substitute Pool ........................................................ 31
Extra-Compensation Positions ............................. 31
Sick Leave ..................................................................33
Accumulated Sick Leave Incentive P la n ................34 Other Absence ........................................................ 34 Maternity L ea ve..........................................................36 Sabbatical Leave For Study or For Rest
& Recuperation.................................................. 37 Leave For Personal Business ............................. 39 Leave of Absence For Military Service ................ 40 Committee Representation.......................................41 C o m m itte e s ..................................................................41 Breakfast Program ................................................ 43 Teacher Employment ............................................ 43 Driver Education .................................................... 43 Special Classes ........................................................ 43 Bi-Lingual T each ers.................................................. 43 Bureau of Pupil Personnel S ervices........................44 Cost of Printing Contract ....................................... 44 Central R egister..........................................................44 Separability and Savings.......................................... 44 Fully Bargained Provisions.......................................45 M is cella n eou s .............................................................. 45 Duration ................................................................... 45 Salary Guides and Calendars...............................47-55
Days School Will C losed ...........................................56 Negotiating T e a m ...................................................... 57 J. C. Bd. of Ed. Officers and M em bers................58 Index ................................................................... 59-61
J .C .E .A . Calendar 1978-79 ................................. 63 J .C .E .A . Calendar 1979-80 ................................. 64
ARTICLE 1
RECOGNITION
1-1. The Board hereby recognizes the Association as the exclusive and sole bargaining representative for all personnel included in the bargaining unit.
1-2. The Board has determined that the provisions of Section 19 of Article 1 of the New Jersey Consti tution can best be effectuated by entering into this Agreement with the Association, and the Board hereby recognizes the Association for purposes of professional negotiation as the exclusive representa tive of those employees of the Public Schools of Jersey City, certified by the State Department of Education, in the following unit including those with tenure, probationary status and on contract, implied or stated, excepting those on per diem assignment.
1-3. The following category of " teachers" : physical education, pre-vocational, industri al art, pre-vocational - home economics, vo cational, chronically ill; educable; deaf; home econo mics; in-charge-of-annex; vocational---related work; trainable; hospital class, neurologically impaired; emotionally disturbed; socially maladjusted; learn ing disability consultant (teacher); home instruction; remedial arithmetic; visiting teacher (school social worker); teacher specialist-music-art; appointed day school K-12, including department coordinators; con tract day school K-12; and state certified day school K-12.
1-4. The following category of " evening high school" personnel: guidance; teacher-guidance; teachers appointed; teachers contract; teachers state certified; teachers who work in schools during the day.
1-5. School psychologist; teachers on leave; student personnel services (guidance teachers).
1-6. Assistant to principals, high school; vice principals elementary school; attendance depart ment; senior officer and permanent officers; school nurses.
1
1-7. This recognition shall not impair the rights of any employee or group of employees under Section 19 of Article 1 of the New Jersey Constitution.
1-8. Unless otherwise indicated, the term " teachers" when used hereinafter in this Agree ment shall refer to all employees represented by the Association in the negotiating unit, and references to male teachers shall include female teachers.
ARTICLE 2
INDIVIDUAL GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
2-1. To promote, to the highest possible degree, harmonious employer-employee relations, it is es sential that procedures to resolve grievances be established.
2-2. A grievance may be considered to exist when an employee believes that an administrative proce dure or policy adversely affects his-her working conditions or his-her welfare or violates the terms of this Agreement or any subsequent agreement entered into pursuant to this Agreement.
2-3. In the wording of this statement of pro cedures, the term " employee" shall be taken to include all members of the bargaining unit.
2-3.1 Any aggrieved person may be represented at any stage of the grievance procedure by a repre sentative selected or approved by the Association.
2-4 Any employee shall have the right to present his-her grievance through the steps described in the following paragraphs with assured freedom from restraint, interference, coercion, discrimination, or reprisal.
2-4.1. STEP I--Any employee who has a grievance shall first orally advise his-her prin cipal (or immediate superior or department head, if applicable) of its existence. The principal shall meet with the employee within three (3) school days in an attempt to resolve the grievance at this level. Within three (3) school days after the dis cussion, the principal (or immediate superior or department head, if applicable) shall orally make known his decision to the employee.
2
2-4.2. STEP IIA-- Should discussion at the level of STEP I not result in a satisfactory resolution, the employee may present his-her grievance within five (5) calendar days to the Grievance Evaluation Team of the JCEA. The JOEA Grievance Evaluation Team will render a decision within seven (7) calendar days of receipt of the grievance. If the decision is that the grievance has no merit, the person involved will be so notified, in writing, by the Chairman of the JCEA Grievance Evaluation Team.
2-4.3. STEP IIB--If the decision of the JCEA Grievance Evaluation Team is that the grievance does have merit, it shall, within the 12-calendar-day period referred to in Step IIA above, present a written statement of its position on the matter to the principal (or immediate superior or depart ment head, if applicable) and to the aggrieved. The employee in further discussion of his grievance, may at this step, be accompanied and assisted by not more than two (2) representatives of the Association, designated by the JCEA Grievance Evaluation Team. The principal (or immediate superior or department head, if applicable) shall hold a meeting upon re quest of the JOEA Grievance Evaluation Team and render a written decision within five (5) school days of receipt of the written statement from the JCEA Grievance Evaluation Team. The prin cipal's (or immediate superior's or department head's, if applicable) decision shall be prepared in triplicate: one copy to the employee, one copy to the JCEA Grievance Evaluation Team, and one copy to the Superintendent of Schools.
2-4.4. STEP III--I f the grievance is not resolved to the satisfaction of the employee at the level of STEP n , the employee may appeal, within ten (10) calendar days, to the Superintendent of Schools in a written statement, setting forth details and grounds on which the grievance is based and attach ing all pertinent documents. The Superintendent or an Assistant Superintendent shall confer with the parties concerned, together or separately, within four (4) calendar days. He shall then, within six (6) school days, render his decision. A written statement of his decision and all supporting reasons shall be sent to the aggrieved, to the principal (or his immediate superior or department head, if appli cable) and the JCEA Grievance Evaluation Team.
3
2-4.5. STEP IV--If the grievance is not resolved at Step III to the satisfaction of the employee, heshe may request a review by the Board of Education within seven (7) school days after the employee re ceives the written decision. This request shall be made in writing through the Superintendent of Schools, who shall attach all related documents and forward the request to the Board of Education. The Board shall review the case; shall hold a hearing with the employee, if requested by the employee; and shall render a decision in writing ten (10) calendar days of the receipt of the grievance Copies of the decision of the Board of Education shall be sent to the aggrieved, to the Superintendent of Schools, and to the JCEA Grievance Evaluation Team.
2-6. An aggrieved employee shall institute action under the provisions hereof within fifteen (15) school days following the occurrence complained of. However, any aggrieved employee whose griev ance deals with those items which are contained in the annual statement, shall have fifteen (15) months following receipt of said statement to file his-her grievance.
2-5.1 The annual statement referred to in 2.5 above shall Include the following information:
2-5.2. Annual salary, step on guide, prior service pay, longevity pay, column on guide, extra compensa tion and number of sick leave days in accumulated sick leave bank as of September 1 next following the annual statement, and Hospital Plan in which the employee is enrolled.
2-6.1. An employee whose grievance has been deemed to be without merit by the JCEA Grievance Evaluation Team shall retain the right of written appeal to the Superintendent of Schools.
2-6.2. Should circumstances necessitate hearings or discussion of a grievance during school hours, there shall be no loss of pay suffered by reason thereof by the aggrieved or his-her representa tives, if they should be employees of the Board of Education.
2-6.3. In the event no decision is forthcoming within prescribed time limits at any step, the ag grieved may, upon notice, proceed to the next step.
--
MEMBERSHIP ON BOARD OF
PERSONNEL PRACTICES
11-1. The Association shall have a minimum of three (3) members appointed by the President of the Association, to serve on and be voting members of the Board of Personnel Practices. At least one member shall be from the elementary schols and at least one from the high schools.
13
ARTICLE 12
TEACHER EVALUATION
12-1. The Board and the Association agree, inasmuch as supervision and evaluation of teachers is a process in which those concerned are equally involved, that a committee made up of representa tives of the principals, assistant principals, super visors and representatives of the Association will be established to prepare joint recommendations as to policy regulating the supervisory function.
12-2. In cases where a teacher has been given an unsatisfactory rating, the teacher will be given a written statement setting forth the particulars of the unsatisfactory rating.
12-2.1. Where such rating endangers increment or contract status of the teacher for the ensuing year, the teacher must be notified of his status by April 1st.
12-2.2. When an unsatisfactory rating comes after April 30th, the teacher's contract status for the ensuing year cannot be denied except for cause.
12-2.3. Cause will be subject to the provision of the Grievance Procedure.
12-3. A teacher evaluation committee shall con tinue to meet. Such committee shall consist of three (3) teachers appointed by the Association and three (3) administrators appointed by the Board. The committee shall meet and submit a written report with recommendations on or before April 30, 1979.
ARTICLE 13
TEACHING ASSIGNMENTS
13-1. Teachers shall not be regularly assigned to teach subjects or grades outside the scope of their teaching certificate.
13-2. Assignments shall be given to teachers at least three (3) days before the closing of school. 13-3. Extra-compensation positions are those listed in Schedule H.
14
13-3.1. Whenever a vacancy exists in a position classified as an extra-compensation position, notice shall be posted in all schools inviting those quali fied to apply in writing. The notice will contain requirements and duties. Each applicant shall sub mit the application by certified mail, return receipt requested.
13-3.2. In instances when immediate assignment is imperative, temporary assignment may be made. Notice of a vacancy will be posted within seven (7) school days after the vacancy occurs.
13-3.3. Selection of personnel to fill all vacan cies will be made by the Board from an alphabetized list of those who apply within the time specified in the announcement. The Board will give preference, in making its selection, to qualified applicants pre sently employed by the Board, giving consideration to experience, seniority and quality of performance based upon prior written evaluations in the Jersey City School System.
13-4. Whenever vacancies or openings occur in those positions administered through the Board which provide extra or additional work and for which additional compensation is offered, notice will be posted in the schools inviting those qualified to apply in writing.
13-4.1. This category shall consist of the following positions:
Summer School and After School Teaching
Accredited Evening High School Teaching
Athletic Coaches
Book and Curriculum Evaluation positions
Special Project positions
The Board shall select personnel to fill such positions on the basis of criteria published. Priority in selection of personnel for positions in the Accredited Evening High School shall be based on prior teaching experience in the Accredited Evening High School. Additional assignments shall be made from a list of those teachers in the Jersey City school system who apply in writing.
13-5. New positions, if and when established by the Board, shall be filled by selection by the Board from those who apply in writing.
15
13-5.1. Selection will be based on published criteria.
13-5.2. Notice of such new positions will be posted in all schools. Published notices will contain the duties, requirements and qualifications for the position.
13-6. Schedules of teachers who are assigned to more than one school shall be so constructed as to limit, insofar as possible, the amount of inter-school travel to a minimum.
13-7. The Superintendent shall assign all new ly appointed personnel to their specific positions within that subject area and/or grade level for which the Board has appointed the teacher. The Superintendent shall give notice of assignments to new teachers as early as possible but no later than August 22.
13-8. In the event that changes in schedules, class and/or subject assignments, building assign ments or room assignments are proposed, said teacher affected shall be notified promptly in writ ing.
13-9. In order to assure that pupils are taught by teachers worrking within their areas of com petence, teachers shall not be assigned outside the scope of their teaching certificates and/or their major or minor fields of study, except where an emergency exists.
ARTICLE 14
TEACHER FILES
14-1. Teachers, upon presentation of advance written request, may inspect their personnel files.
14-2. Teachers shall have the right to add written comments to any material filed and these written comments, after review by the Assistant Superintendent of Schools in charge of Personnel, shall be made part of the teacher's personnel file.
14-3. In the event material of a critical, deroga tory or unfounded nature is to be placed on file, the teacher involved shall be notified and given the opportunity to review such material. The teacher's written comments, if any, relative to such material shall be made part of the teacher's file.
16
14- 4. Completed evaluation forms are to be kept in personnel folders of all teachers.
ARTICLE 15
TEACHER MEETINGS
15- 1. Principals of individual schools or other duly authorized personnel shall notify the faculty of any meeting to be held at which their attendance is required at least two (2) days in advance of the meeting date, except in emergencies. Notice of the meeting shall include the proposed agenda.
15-2. The Board and the Association recognize that meetings requiring attendance of the entire faculty of a building after regular school hours should only be called for such items as those which relate to the safety and welfare of students and teachers and for other significant purposes.
15-3. Normally, no more than two (2) meetings per month shall be called and, normally, such meet ings shall not exceed forty-five (45) minutes. If, in the judgment of the principal, it is necessary to hold any additional meetings, the Association re presentative will be notified, under normal circum stances, two (2) days in advance and, in all circum stances, in advance.
15-4. The Association Director shall have an opportunity to speak during any meeting for a period normally not longer than five (5) minutes.
15- 5. Should the teachers in any building feel that an excessive number of meetings are being called, they may act according to the Grievance Procedure beginning at Step III.
ARTICLE 16
PROMOTIONS
16- 1. The administrative and supervisory posi tions listed below shall be filled by Board appoint ment, in order of numerical ranking from appro priate eligibility lists.
16-1.1. Numerical ranking shall be determined through competitive examinations conducted by the
17
Board of Personnel Practices. The examinations shall consist of a written section which shall have a weight of 40%. No person shall be allowed to take the oral section of the examination unless he has passed the written part. The oral interview shall have a weight of 60%. The Board of Personnel Practices conducting the oral interview shall Include professional educators not regularly employed by the Board of Education.
16-2. The positions of Superintendent of Schools, First Assistant Superintendent of Schools and Assistant Superintendent of Schools are not within the scope of this promotional policy.
16-3. Positions covered by this policy are as follows:
Director, High School Principal, Assistant Director, Grammar School Principal, High School Vice Principal, Supervisor, Primary Principal, Grammar School Assistant Principal, and Assistant Super visor.
16-4. It is agreed that, in administering this policy:
Vacancies to be filled shall be publicized in all schools within ten (10) school days after an opening occurs.
16-5. All publicity and notices of such vacancies and positions shall set forth qualifications for and duties of the position.
16-6. Promotional examinations shall be held within sixty (60) days following said announcement, Any necessary extension of this period shall be made by mutual agreement between the Office of the Superintendent of Schools and the Association.
16-7. Vacancies arising may be filled on a tem porary basis until they can be filled in accordance with the provisions of Section 4, 5 and 6 of this Article.
16-8. All vacancies and positions shall be filled without regard to race, age, creed, color, religion, nationality, sex, or marital status.
18
ARTICLE 17
TRANSFERS
This article is subject to the New Jersey Supreme Court decision, August 2, 1978 (Ridgefield Park Education Association vs. the Board of Education of Ridgefield Park.)
17-1. The Board and the Association believe that frequent transfers of teachers from one school to another are inimical to the educational process and interfere with optimum teacher performance. Only true vacancies caused by establishment of new positions, resignation, retirement, termination or death shall be filled by transfers. Therefore, they agree as follows:
17-2. In all cases of transfer, the following shall apply:
17-2.1. In cases of Voluntary transfer, seniority begins when the teacher assumes the new position.
17-2.2. In cases of Involuntary transfer, the teacher shall retain all accrued seniority.
17-2.3. For the purposes of this Article, promo tional and extra compensation positions applied for shall be deemed voluntary transfers.
17-3. Voluntary Transfers A teacher seeking transfer to another school
shall submit a written request to the Superinten dent of Schools no later than March 1st of the cur rent year. The teacher shall state the reasons for the request, the school, grade and/or subject to which the teacher seeks transfer. Three (3) choices, in order of preference, if there be preference, shall also be stated. I f none of the choices is available then the written request shall be deemed withdrawn,
17-3.1. In cases of voluntary transfer the follow ing criteria shall be applied.
A . Availability of vacancies. B. Seniority in the Jersey City Public Schools as
a regular teacher. C. Seniority as a regular teacher in the school
from which the transfer is requested.
19
17-3.2. Transfers from any school shall not ex ceed 5% of the teaching staff in that school so that miaximum stability may be maintained in every school.
17-3.3. Convenience and wishes o f the teacher requesting transfer will be honored when they do not conflict with the instructional requirements and the best interest of the school system.
17-3.4. When a request for transfer is not grant ed, the teacher shall be notified in writing by the office o f the Superintendent of Schools.
17-3.5. A list of all transfers shall be made available to the Association immediately upon re quest .
17-4. Involuntary Transfers 17-4.1. The teacher involved shall be notified at a meeting with the principal or immediate super ior of the intention to request the transfer and of the reasons therefore.
17-4.2. This meeting shall be held, under normal circumstances, three (3) days before the end of the school year.
17-4.3. The reason or reasons for the request shall also be set forth in writing and presented to the Superintendent of Schools and to the teacher.
17-4.4. In cases of involuntary transfer, the following criteria shall apply:
A . For good cause B . Seniority in the Jersey City Public Schools
--
STUDENT DISCIPLINE
The Board and the Association agree that: 18-1. Teachers have a primary disciplinary re sponsibility.
18-2. It is the responsibility of administrators to support the teacher in this role.
18-3. Teachers have the right to recommend the suspension of pupils from their classes.
18-4. This procedure shall not contravene any statutory provision affecting the right of the prin cipal to suspend.
18- 5. When, in the judgment of a teacher, a student is by his behavior seriously disrupting the instructional program to the detriment of other students, the teacher may send the student to the principal. In such cases, the principal shall arrange as soon as possible--and under normal circumstances not later than the conclusion of the following school day--a conference among himself, the teacher, the parent, and possibly an appropriate specialist, to discuss the problem and to decide upon appropriate steps for the child's return.
ARTICLE 19
TEXTBOOKS, TEACHING MATERIALS,
AND SUPPLIES
19- 1. The Board shall allocate sufficient funds to provide for the purchase and/or replacement of textbooks, library books, instructional materials, supplies, and equipment of sufficient quality and quantity to enable teachers properly to fulfill their teaching responsibilities.
19-2. To be sure that all textbooks are available for the first day of school, textbooks should be ordered in time for an August 15th delivery. Trans fer of books between schools shall be facilitated.
19-3. QUANTITIES. All schools should have, in sufficient number and kind, such audio-visual
21
equipment as: record players, tape recorders, film
and filmstrip projectors, opaque-overhead-slide pro jectors, televisions, radios, and all accompanying'
multi-media instructional materials. This shall also include all duplicating and copying
machines and materials.
19-4. AVAILABILITY. All such multi-media in structional devices and materials shall be arranged and located to facilitate maximum utility by
all members of the instructional staff, under the auspices of the principal.
19-5. Petty cash funds shall be established at each school in the following amount for each school
year.
School with 0-500 students School with 501-1000 students School with 1001-1500 students School with 1501 and more students
$150. $200. $250. $300.
ARTICLE 20
TEACHING CONDITIONS
( Preparation-on-call periods)
20-1. PREPARATION PERIOD--Each teacher is to have an uninterrupted preparation period each day, when possible. The practice of using a regular teacher as a substitute, thereby depriving him of his preparation period, is undesirable and shall be done only in an emergency where regular substitutes are not available. Regular teachers shall first be assigned on a voluntary basis during their non teaching time, prior to assignment on a rotating basis.
20-2. HIGH SCHOOL-- Secondary teachers shall not be assigned to more than two (2) subject matter teaching preparations per day without full and sufficient cause.
20-2.1. The normal academic load of a teacher in the high schools shall consist of five (5) teaching periods, a home room, and a special as signment. In Physical Education, Industrial Arts, and other double-period subject areas, variation from the normal must occur.
22
20-2.2. Teaching periods will be spead out over the eight-period day so that, with the exception of teachers of double-period subjects, a teacher will normally teach no more than two periods conse cutively. In all instances, efficient utilization of the school facilities and personnel must be accorded the highest priority to insure proper scheduling.
20-3. ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS--1The Board and Association agree to strive for a goal of three (3) on-call periods per week in the elementary schools. This program shall be implemented by relieving teachers of classroom responsibilities when such specialists as teachers of art, music, industrial arts, home economics and physical education take over classes. Principals shall be encouraged to work toward this goal when scheduling specialists to. as sure uniform preparation time among each building faculty. The Board and Association agree that in cases of emergencies affecting the normal operation of the school, teachers may be called upon to cover classes. In such emergencies, available teachers will be selected from a rotating list to insure equit able distribution of such assignments.
20-4. In the event a classroom teacher is re quired to cover for an absent teacher, he-she shall be compensated per the following formula:
20-4.1. One day shall be added to the sick leave bank for every five (5) periods, (study, assigned duty or recitation) taken in the high schools.
Assumption of a Home Room assignment in the high schools shall be considered equal to onehalf of a study, assigned-duty, or recitation period.
--
ARTICLE 25
TEACHER NOTIFICATION
25- 1. Regularly appointed teachers who are not under tenure shall be notified of their job status for the ensuing year on or before April 30, under normal circumstances.
27
25-2. Contract teachers shall be notified of their employment status for the ensuing year no later than April 1st.
ARTICLE 2fi
COACHES
26-1. MEETINGS: Association- Board Athletic Committee-- The Board and the Association agree that, in order to achieve a more flexible and mean ingful athletic program, members of the Board of Education's Athletic Committee will meet with re presentatives of the Association no less than three (3) times per year, (at least two (2) of these meet ings shall be before January 1 of each school year), for purposes of discussing and planning activities of mutual concern.
26-2. EVALUATION: The responsibility of evaluating a coach's performance of duty during a game and in his preparation for a game shall be placed on the Director of Health and Physical Education-- the Assistant Director of Health and Physical Education, the Principal of his school, and the Faculty Advisor of Athletics, and in those cases where applicable, the Supervisor of Girls Physical Education.
26-3. RE-EMPLOYMENT: Coaches will not be required to submit a yearly application for re employment. Coaches will be notified of their re employment within sixty (60) days after the con clusion of the season.
26-4. ADVANCEMENT: When a vacancy occurs in any Head Coaching position, appointment shall be given to an assistant coach active in that particular sport, based on seniority, experience, and evaluation reports within the system.
26-5. FILLING VACANCIES: Whenever a va cancy exists in a coaching position, notice of such vacancy shall be posted in all schools inviting those qualified to apply in writing. The written application shall be sent to the Director or Assistant Director of Health and Physical Education.
28
26-6. In the event a vacancy shall occur during the summer recess, notification shall be given in writing to the last known address of all coaches in that sport. The applicant shall have fifteen (15) days to indicate interest. In the event more than one indicates such interest, the final choice shall be made by the Board of Education.
26-7. When a vacancy occurs for the position of Faculty Advisor of Athletics, only coaches with five (5) years experience or members of the Physical Education Department shall be considered.
26-8. ELEMENTARY SCHOOL TEACHERS: Elementary school teachers with coaching positions shall be given an unassigned period at the end of each school day, where feasible, to facilitate their coaching responsibilities.
ARTICLE 27
HEALTH INSURANCE
27-1. The Board of Education shall make avail able to teachers individual coverage under the New Jersey Public and School Employees Health Benefits Plan, including Rider "J" .
27-2. The Board shall provide the health-care insurance protection designated below.
27-2.1. The Board shall pay full premium for each teacher and, in cases where appropriate, for family-plan insurance coverage.
27-2.1:1. For each teacher who remains in the employ of the Board for the full school year, the Board shall make payment of insurance premiums to provide insurance coverage for the full twelve (12) month period commencing September 1st and ending August 31st. When necessary, premiums in behalf of the teacher shall be made retroactively or pros pectively to assure uninterrupted participation and coverage.
27-2.1:2. Provisions of the health-care insurance program shall be detailed in master policies and contracts agreed upon by the Board and the Associa tion and shall include:
29
a. Hospital room and board and miscellaneous costs.
b. Out-patient benefits. c. Laboratory fees, diagnostic expenses, and
therapy treatments. d. Maternity costs. e . Surgical costs. f. Major-medical coverage. g . An individual dental plan
will be provided. h . An individual prescription plan will be pro
vided .
27-2.2. The Board shall provide to each teacher a description of the health-care insurance coverage provided under this section which shall include a clear description of conditions and limits of coverage as listed above.
27-2.3. The Board shall provide each teacher with a $2,500 life insurance policy and a $2,500 death and dismemberment policy. Upon retirement, the life insurance coverage shall be deceased to $1,000 for each retired teacher, and the death and dis memberment policy shall be cancelled. The pre mium for the post-retirement life insurance in the amount of $1,000 shall be borne by the retiree.
ARTICLE 28
ACADEMIC FREEDOM
28-1. In our representative democracy, in which ultimate power is retained by the people and exer cised through delegation of authority, the Board and the Association advocate the realization of the full potential of each individual by recognition of and respect for his-her dignity. It therefore follows that the education of each individual must develop the essential fundamental processes and those skills, understandings, and attitudes which will affect hisher harmonious development as a spirtual, intellec tual, physical, emotional, and social being. It is recognized that these democratic values can best be transmitted in an atmosphere which is free from censorship and artificial restraints upon free inquiry and learning, and in which academic freedom for teacher and student is encouraged.
30
28- 2. Academic freedom shall be guaranteed to teachers, and no special limitations shall be placed upon study investigation, presenting and interpreting facts and ideas concerning man, human society, the physical and biological world, and other branches of learning, which do not conflict with the philosophy, underlying principles, objectives and content of the courses of study adopted by the Board of Education.
ARTICLE 29
SPECIALISTS
29- 1. The Board shall employ, during the life of this Agreement, additional specialists to meet the needs of the school system to the extent that availability of funds, space, and personnel per mit.
29-2. The Board agrees that the number of specialists employed shall not be reduced by the Board during the term for this Agreement.
29-3. For and during the life of this Agreement, the Board will provide at least nineteen (19) special ists who will be hired in accordance with educational needs.
29-4. For and during the life of this Agreement, the Board will provide one (1) mobil learning center in addition to those that may be in existence in ac cordance with educational needs.
29- 5. For and during the life of this Agreement, the Board will provide reading labs in three (3) schools in addition to those that may be in existence and in accordance with educational needs.
ARTICLE 30
SUBSTITUTE POOL
30- 1. The number of substitutes in the Substitute Pool shall be maintained at no less than forty (40).
ARTICLE 31
EXTRA -COMPENSA TION. POSITIONS
31- 1. Extra-compensation positions shall include, but not be limited to, those listed in Schedule H.
31
31-2. Whenever a vacancy exists in a position classified as an extra-compensation position, notice shall be posted in all schools inviting those quali fied to apply in writing. (The notice shall contain experience and training criteria in addition to the duties and requirements of the position.)
31-2.1. In instances when immediate assignment is imperative, temporary assignment may be made. Notice of a vacancy shall be posted within five (o ' school days after the vacancy occurs.
31-2.2. Selection of personnel to fill such vacan cies shall be made by the Board from an alphabetical list of those who apply within the time specified in the announcement.
31-2.3. Notice of a vacancy shall be posted on the official school bulletin board in every school within five (5) school da(ys after the vacancy occurs.
31-2.4. This category shall include, but not be limited to, such positions as:
Summer School and After School Teaching Accredited Evening High School Teaching Athletic Coaches Book and Curriculum Evaluation positions Special Project positions
The Board shall select personnel to fill such positions on the basis of criteria published. Priority in selection of personnel for positions in the Ac credited Evening High School shall be based on prior teaching experience in the Accredited Evening High School. Additional assignments shall be made from a list of those teachers in the Jersey City school system who apply in writing.
31-2.5. New positions, if and when established by the Board, shall be filled, by selection by the Board from those who apply in writing.
31-2.6. Notice of such new positions will be posted in all schools. Published notices will con tain the duties, requirements and qualifications for the position.
31-3. Summer school openings shall be pub licized, and teachers shall be notified of the action taken as early as possible.
32
31- 3.1. In filling such positions, consideration shall be given to a tenured teacher's area of com petence, major and/or minor field of study. Pre ference shall be given first to teachers regularly em ployed in the Jersey City Public Schools.
ARTICLE 32
SICK LEAVE
32- 1. Every teacher shall be credited with fourteen (14) days of accumulative sick leave an nually.
32-2. A teacher who has used the current per sonal illness leave days and cumulative personal illness leave account, upon the recommendation of the Superintendent of Schools and the approval of the Medical Director, may receive one (1) additional day for each year of service as a regularly appointed teacher in the Jersey City Public Schools, with a minimum of ten (10) days, unless fewer are required, These additional days shall be called " permissive personal illness leave" and shall not be cumula tive, and shall not be granted more than twice, but only once in any given school year. Individual days of absence not requiring a leave of absence may not be applied against permissive leave. If a teacher has not used his-her entire permissive leave in a school year, he-she may request the Superintendent of Schools, in writing, to apply the unused days within that school year (to June 30) to a new ill ness leave (five (5) days or more), if such is neces sary, prior to expiration of that current school year.
32-3. A teacher who has served from one (1) to ten (10) years in the Jersey City School System shall be allowed an absence beyond the accumulated per sonal illness leave and the permissive person al illness leave not greater than forty (40) days in any one school year during which period he-she shall forfeit one-half (1/2 ) substitute's per diem pay.
32-4. A teacher who has served ten (10) or more years in the Jersey City School System shall be allowed an absence beyond the accumulated personal illness leave and the permissive personal illness leave not greater than eighty (80) days in any one school year, during which period he-she shall forfeit one-half (1/2) substitute's per diem pay.
33
32-5. To be eligible for benefits provided for in sections 32-3 and 32-4, a teacher must meet the re quirements of section 32-2.
32-6. Salary payment shall be discontinued in case of absence in any one school year which exceeds that enumerated in the preceding paragraphs.
32- 7. Deductions for absence of teachers in the Jersey City Public Schools on days when the schools are in session less than the customary five and one half (5-1/2) hours shall be computed on the basis of the actual number of hours lost by such teachers while school was in session.
ARTICLE 33
ACCUMULATED SICK LEAVE INCENTIVE PLAN
33- 1. The teacher, upon resignation after ten (10) years of regularly appointed service or upon retirement, shall receive a lump sum payment equi valent to one-half (1/2) of the current substitute per diem pay for each unused day accumulated in his-her personal illness leave bank after July 1, 1956. In the event of death before retirement, the teacher's estate shall receive the lump sum payment described herein.
33-2. A teacher who has at least three (3) years of service within the Jersey City School District shall have the option of trading in one-half (1/2) of the sick days that he-she has accumulated in Jersey City after September 1, 1972, at a rate equal to one-half (1/2) of the prevailing substitute per diem pay.
ARTICLE 34
OTHER ABSENCE
34-1. ABSENCE FOR DEATH IN FAMILY--
In case of death of a parent, brother, sister, husband,
wife, child, stepchild, or relative who is a member
of the immediate household of a teacher, the teacher
shall be excused without loss of pay or accumulated
leave not to exceed five (5) consecutive calendar
I
days.
34
34-2. ABSENCE FOR DEATH OF RELATIVE-- In case of the death of a relative not included in the above section, a teacher shall be excused for the day of the funeral without loss of pay or accumu lated leave. The definition of "relative" in this section shall include the following: grandfather, grandmother, uncle by consanguinity (but not af finity), aunt by cosanguinity (but not affinity), nephew, niece, cousin by consanguinity (first cousin only, and not cousin's wife or husband), father in law, mother in law, brother in law (direct), sister in law (direct), son in law, daughter in latw, grandchild, stepfather, and stepmother.
34-2.1. In the event of the death of an active faculty member, the faculty of the school shall be excused for a portion of the day to allow the faculty to attend services.
In the event that the school cannot meet the state required hours for attendance or if sche duling difficulties prohibit this, a representative group of the faculty members shall be excused to attend the services.
34-3. ABSENCE FOR RELIGIOUS OBSER VANCE--Teachers may be excused for no more than three (3) days per year for religious obser vance. Deduction in salary for such days will be one-half (1/2) substitute's per diem pay.
34-4. ABSENCE BY REASON OF QUARANTINE OR COURT ORDER-- A teacher absent from school by reason of quarantine by the Board of Health shall not suffer deductions in pay for such absence.
34-4.1. A teacher absent in compliance with the requirements of a court order shall not suffer de ductions in pay for such absence provided he-sh.e is served with a subpoena or summons and evidence of such service is supplied to his-her principal or de partment head and the absence is approved by the Superintendent of Schools.
34-4.2. ABSENCE OF NIGHT SCHOOL TEACHER FROM DAY SCHOOL--If a teacher in a day school who is employed also in an evening school shall be absent from the day school and teach in the
35
evening school on the evening of the day of absence from the day school, the teacher shall not forfeit per diem pay for the absence from the day school.
34-5. REPORT OF ABSENCE--A teacher who is absent from duty because of personal illness, death in the family, quarantine, or compliance with the requirements of a court shall notify the principal as early as possible, and such notification shall be given in advance where possible. A teacher who is absent from duty for any other reason shall first secure permission from the Superintendent of Schools through the principal.
34-5.1. The teacher shall, in reporting absence for personal illness, communicate to the principal the probable duration of the illness.
34-5.2. Teachers absent for any period of five (5) days or less must, on return, complete, sign and file with the principal, on forms to be supplied by the Board, a personal certificate as to the neces sity of the absence.
34- 6. NOTIFICATION OF RETURN AFTER ABSENCE-- A teacher who has been absent for two (2) days or more shall, before the end of the school day prior to his-her return, notify the principal of his-her expected return.
ARTICLE 35
MATERNITY LEAVE
(The article set forth below is subject to recent Court decisions.)
35- 1. LEA VE OF A BSENCE FOR MA TERNIT Y --Any regularly appointed member of the teaching staff who is a married woman and who is pregnant shall file, with the Superintendent of Schools, not later than three (3) months before the expected birth of the child, an application for a maternity leave, together with a physician's certificate setting forth the date of the expected birth. She shall be eligible, thirty (30) days hence, to receive, upon the recommendation of the Superintendent of Schools, maternity leave, without pay, for two (2) calendar years and such additional time as will permit the leave of absence to terminate on the following August 31st.
36
35-2. Any teacher who may become pregnant during a leave of absence granted for prior preg nancy may apply, for one (1) additional leave for maternity.
35-3. Upon request, an additional leave of one (1) year may be granted for child care. This may not be renewed after expiration.
35-4. The Superintendent of Schools, for proper cause and upon application of the teacher, may re commend the termination of the leave for approval of the Board of Education prior to its proper date of termination.
35-5. Any teacher not regularly appointed who becomes pregnant shall so notify the Superintendent of Schools, in writing, not later than three (3) months before the expecter birth of the child, and her services shall be terminated, forty-five (45) days hence, until her return to service may be approved by the Medical Director.
35-6. ILLNESS AS A RESULT OF PREGNANCY--Should any teacher, absent on ma ternity leave, develop any illness or malady as a result of such pregnancy, and be unable to resume her work at the end of her said leave because of such illness or malady, she may be granted further leave of absence, not to exceed one (1) year, without pay, upon the recommendation of the Medical Direc tor of the Board of Education, and subject to the approval of the Board of Education, until she has recovered from such illness.
35-7. Any teacher adopting a child shall be eligible to receive leave similar to maternity leave which shall commence upon his or her re ceiving de facto custody of said child, or earlier if necessary to fulfill the requirements for the adop tion.
ARTICLE 36
SABBATICAL LEAVE FOR STUDY OR FOR REST
AND RECUPERATION
36-1. LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR STUDY--A leave of absence for the purpose of study shall be granted by the Board of Education to any member
37
of the teaching staff who has performed continuous and satisfactory service in the public schools of Jersey City for at least seven (7) years. The nature and scope of the study must be approved by the Superintendent of Schools.
36-1.1. A teacher to whom this leave of absence is granted shall be eligible for promotion in salary as if on active duty.
36-2. LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR REST AND RECUPERATION--A leave of absence for the pur pose of rest and recuperation shall be granted by the Board of Education to any member of the teach ing staff who has performed continuous and satis factory service in the public schools of Jersey City for at least fifteen (15) years.
36-2.1. A teacher to whom this leave of absence is granted shall be eligible for promotion in salary as if on active duty.
36-3. COMPENSATION DURING LEAVE FOR STUDY OR FOR REST AND RECUPERATION-- A teacher absent on leave for study or for rest and recuperation shall receive, as compensation, onehalf (1/2) of his or her monthly salary for each month during the continuance of such leave.
36-3.1. This compensation shall be paid in the same manner and at the same time as salaries are paid to other members of the teaching staff.
36-4. LENGTH OF A ND TIME OF BEGINNING LEAVE FOR STUDY OR REST AND RECUPER ATION--A leave of absence for study or for rest and recuperation granted under this rule shall be for a period of tweve (12) months beginning September 1st. Teachers on such leave may request cancellation of such leave at any time.
36-5. TIME OF APPLICATION FOR LEAVE FOR STUDY OR FOR REST AND RECUPERA TION--Application for leave of absence for rest and recuperation should be presented to the Superin tendent of Schools at least three (3) months before the beginning of the desired leave. Application for leave of absence for study should be presented to the Superintendent of Schools at least four (4) months before the beginning of the desired leave.
38
The applicant shall sign a contract to serve in the public schools of this city for at least two (2) years after the expiration of the leave. The Superinten dent of Schools shall report these applications to the Board at its next meeting.
36-6. USE OF LEAVE FOR STUDY OR REST AND RECUPERATION-- The Board of Education shall require all teachers to whom leaves of absence are granted for study or for rest and recuperation under these rules to carry out fully all the details of the program of study presented in the application for leave, or to devote themselves to the purpose of rest and recuperation, and to refrain from engaging in any remunerative occupation during the contin uance of the leave of absence. Tuition grants, scholarships, grant-in-aids, Federal Government grans, or stipends, etc., shall not be considered as remuneration. Teachers on leave of absence for study shall present to the Superintendent of Schools, at such time as he may require, certificates signed by proper authorities, of the beginning, continuance and completion of the course of study chosen.
36-6.1. For its own protection and the protection of the schools, the Board will, in any case of viola tion, terminate the leave of absence and will regard such violation as evidence of conduct unbecoming a teacher, within the purview of the Tenure of Office Act.
ARTICLE 37
LEAVE FOR PERSONAL BUSINESS
37-1. LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR PERSONAL BUSINESS--heave of absence for personal business may be granted by the Board of Education for such periods as the Board may decide, said period may not exceed one (1) year. Teachers on such leave may request extension of such leave for good and valid cause. Those to whom such leave is granted shall suffer loss of pay and must state, in writing, that they will not accept another position as adminis trator, supervisor or teacher during that period.
37-2. Teachers shall be entitled to two (2) per sonal business days per year without loss of pay.
The personal business days shall not be comulative.
UNUSED PERSONAL BUSINESS DAYS SHALL BE TRANSFERRED TO SICK LEAVE BANK.
37-2.1. One who requests a personal business day shall submit his request, on the form prescribed, to the principal in time to allow the request to reach the Office of the Superintendent of Schools three (3) days prior to the day of leave.
37-2.2. In the case of a personal emergency, the requirement of a prior written request will be waived by the Superintendent of Schools.
37-2.3. Except in the case of personal emer gency, personal business leave days may not be taken on:
A . The first or last week of the school year B. The day before or after a school holiday C. The day prior to or immediately following a vacation period within the school year.
ARTICLE 38
LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR MILITARY SERVICE
38-1. FIELD TRAINING OR ATTENDANCE AT SERVICE SCHOOLS--A regularly appointed or contract teacher who is required to undergo military field training or to attend service school for a period of two (2) weeks or less during any school year shall be granted leave of absence with pay.
38-2. Whenever such military field training or attendance at service schools requires that the teacher remain for a longer period than the pre scribed two (2) weeks, the teacher shall receive the difference between his pay and his military pay for the remainder of such time, provided that such additional time of training or service school attend ance is not in excess of one (1) calendar month dur ing any school year. Should any military field train ing or attendance at service schools in excess of that granted above be required in the same school year, military leave without pay for each additional period shall be granted.
40
38-3. LEAVE FOR EXTENDED ACTIVE MILI TARY SERVICE--Any regularly appointed or con tract teacher entering active military service with the Armed Forces of the United States shall be granted military leave without pay for the period of his-her service.
38-3.1. The members of the National Guard and the Naval Militia shall receive the difference be tween their pay and military pay in accordance with Revised Statutes of New Jersey 38:12-4.5.
38-3.2. Re-enlistment in active military service shall be considered as resignation unless such re enlistment is required in accordance with Federal Law governing military service.
ARTICLE 39
COMMITTEE REPRESENTATION
39-1. The President of the Association shall have the exclusive right to designate the representa tives of he Association to serve on all committees.
ARTICLE 40
COMMITTEES
40-1. The joint SCHOOL FACILITIES PRO GRAM AND EMERGENCY SCHOOL BUILDING AID COMMITTEE shall continue to evaluate school facilities and emergency school building aid from the State Government and to make recommendations regarding same to the Board.
40-2. The joint INSTRUCTIONAL COMMITTEE consisting of four (4) representatives of the Board-- three (3) members of the Association, and one (1) representative of the Jersey City Parents Council shall meet bi-monthly during the school year and advise the Board and the Association on such mat ters as textbook evaluation, curriculum revision and other educational matters regarding the effective operation of the Jersey City School District.
40-3. MENTAL HEALTH AND DRUG USE CLINIC--The Board shall establish a committee to study the establishment of a mental-health and drug-
41
use clinic. The clinic would provide mentalhealth services to carry out the recommendations of psychologists and psychiatrists. The clinic would also make preventive diagnoses in the area of drug abuse. The committee shall consist of three members appointed by the Board and two by the Association.
40-4. The joint SPECIAL EDUCATION COM MITTEE consisting of three (3) representatives of the Board and three (3) members of the Association shall continue to evaluate the existing special edu cation program and to make recommendations for implementation of further special education pro grams to the Board.
40-5. IN-SERVICE TRAINING--To encourage members of the Professional Staff in the Jersey City Public Schools to improve their professional skills, the Board agrees to provide in-service courses each year, the nature and content of such courses to be decided by the Board and association representa tives, To plan and implement such in-service training, a committee shall be established with five membersthree to be named by the Association and two to be named by the Board.
40-6. The SUPERINTENDENT'S COMMITTEE ON FEDERAL FUND PROJECTS-- This committee shall develop projects to be undertaken with federal funds. The superintendent shall appoint those teachers selected by the Association.
40-7. The joint SCHOOL PARKING FACILI TIES COMMITTEE consisting of two (2) repre sentatives from the Board and two (2) members from the Association shall investigate the avail ability of space and the feasibility of utilizing such space at each school site for the purpose of parking facilities for members of this bargaining unit. This committee shall submit a written report with re commendation within the 1978-80 school years.
40.8. The joint COMMITTEE ON TEACHER EVALUATION shall continue to meet to prepare joint recommendations as to policy regulating the supervision and evaluation of teachers.
40-9. The joint COMMITTEE ON NONTEACHING DUTIES shall continue to study the
42
feasibility of implementing an aide program and shall forward recommendations to the Association and the Board from time to time.
40-10. The ATHLETIC AWARDS COMMITTEE comprised of members of the Board and representa tives of the Association shall continue to evaluate and establish a system of awards for athletic con tests.
ARTICLE 41
BREAKFAST PROGRAM
41-1. The Board supports the concept of a school breakfast program as established under Federal guidelines and agrees to continue the joint BREAKFAST COMMITTEE consisting of three (3) representatives of the Board and two (2) members of the Association. The Committee shall report to the Board periodically on progress achieved.
ARTICLE 42
TEACHER EMPLOYMENT
42- 1. The Board shall hire--to the fullest extent possible--only fully certified teachers holding stand ard certificates issued by the New Jersey State Board of Examiners for every teaching assignment.
ARTICLE 43 DRIVER EDUCATION
43- 1. The Board will consider the matter of providing behind-the-wheel instruction as part of the existing driver education course. The Board shall make use of at least two driving simulators in existing driver education courses.
ARTICLE 44 SPECIAL CLASSES
44- 1. The Board shall establish during the life of this Agreement new classes to meet the needs of the school system to the extent that avail ability of funds, space, and personnel permit.
ARTICLE 45 BI-UNGUAL TEACHERS
45- 1. The Board shall employ during the life of this Agreement additional bi-lingual teachers to the extent that availability of funds, space, and per sonnel permit.
43
ARTICLE 46
BUREAU OF PUPIL PERSONNEL SERVICES
46-1. The Board shall establish a men's faculty lounge equipped with a refrigerator, cooking unit, plumbing facilities, and lounge chairs.
46-2. The Board shall equip the Bureau of Pupil Personnel Services with ten (10) tape recorders and ten (10) dictaphones.
46- 3. An annual program of professional im provement shall be conducted during school hours for all professional members of the Bureau of Pupil Personnel Services, the program shall include expert speakers in related fields from outside the Jersey City School System. In addition to the two presently allowed visitation days, each member of the Bureau's professional staff may attend, without loss of pay, one professional meeting in an appropriate field outside of Jersey City. Permission shall be requested from the Superinten dent of Schools three (3) days in advance.
ARTICLE 47
COST OF PRINTING CONTRACT
47- 1. The Board and the Association each agree to pay one-half (1/2) of the costs for the final printing of 4,000 copies of this contract agreement In booklet form. The Association will prepare the contract form and submit names of printers to the Board for selection.
ARTICLE 48
CENTRAL REGISTER
48- 1. One central register will be added to existing central registers during each of the two years of this agreement.
ARTICLE 49 SEPARABILITY AND SAVINGS 49- 1. Should any portion of this Agreement be held unlawful and unenforceable by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision of the court shall apply only to the specific portion of the
44
Agreement affected by such decision, whereupon the parties agree immediately to negotiate a sub stitute for the invalidated portion thereof.
ARTICLE 50
FULLY BARGAINED PROVISIONS
50- 1. This Agreement represents and incorpor ates the complete and final understanding and settlement by the parties on all bargainable issues for the life of this Agreement, and neither party shall be required to negotiate on any subject unless they mutually agree to do so.
ARTICLE 51
MISCELLANEOUS
51- 1. There shall be no reprisals of any kind taken by the Board, its servants, agents, or em ployees against any teacher or member of the JCEA by reason of membership in the JCEA or participa tion of its activities or by reason of his-her em ployment and/or his-her school-connected activities.
51-2. The President of the JCEA shall be per mitted to attend to Association affairs to the same degree as was true prior to the 1978-80 school year, and shall continue to be granted adequate office facilities.
51- 8. The Association agrees that teachers will, if requested, meet with parents during the evening not more than twice during the school year exclusive of the traditional open-house practice. One of said three (3) meetings shall be held after school hours and the other two (2) shall be held in the evening.
ARTICLE 52
DURATION
52- 1. The provisions of this Agreement shall be effective as of September 1, 1978, and shall remain in full force and effect until August 31, 1980, subject to the right of the Board and Association to nego tiate for a modification of this Agreement as pro vided in Article 3 of said Agreement.
52-2. All present conditions covered by any pre vious Agreement and those items now in effect as regular employer-employee practice shall remain in effect unless otherwise provided for in the 1978-80 Contract or unless changed hereinafter by mutual consent.
45
--
21,200
* This phase of the equivalency program is re stricted to teachers appointed prior to September 1, 1963. Teachers appointed on or after September 1, 1963 must possess a Master's Degree to be eligible for advanced salary standing.
Effective February 1, 1979 to January 1, 1980
Step Bachelor t 32 ` Bachelor t 64 Doctorate
Master t 32 Master or
or
* Bachelor Earned
11,750
12,450
13,150
13,850
12,200
12,900
13,600
14,300
12,650
13,350
14,050
14,750
--
22,500
* This phase of the equivalency program is re stricted to teachers appointed prior to September 1, 1963. Teachers appointed on or after September 1, 1963 must possess a Masters Degree to be eligible for advanced salary standing .
47
SCHEDULE A
September, 1979
Incremental increases will be granted September 1, 1979.
Step
1 2 3 4
5 6 7 8 9
10 11 12 13 14
Effective February 1, 1980
Bachelor t 32 *Bachelor t 64 Doctorate
13,100
14,450 15,775 16,225
16,675
17,125
17,575
18,025
18,475 19,325
21,000 21,925
13,100 13,550
14,000
15,350 16,675
17,125 17,575
18,475
18,925
19,375 20,225 21,900 22,825
14,000 14,450
14,900
16,250 17.575
18,025 18,475
--
* This phase of the equivalency program is re
stricted to teachers appointed prior to September 1, 1963. Teachers appointed on or after September 1, 1963 must possess a Masters Degree to be eligible for advanced salary standing .
Step 1 o
3 4 5
SCHEDULE B
SCHOOL PSYCHOLOGISTS
September 1, 1978 to January 31, 1979
Effective September 1, 1978
M. A. 18,192
19,587 20,182
20,778 21,968
M .A . t 32
18,853 20,249
20,844 21,439 22,630
DR. 19,515 20,910 21,505 22,101 23,291
48
Step
1 2 3 4 5 6
Effective February 1, 1979
M. A.
18,200 19,600 20,200 20,800 22,000 23,300
18,900 20,300 20,900 21,500 22,700 24,000
DR.
19,600 21,000 21,600 22,200 23,400 24,700
--
Extra Compensation Positions ............................. 31 Federal Funds Committee .................................... 42 Fully Bargained Provisions...................................... 45
Grievance Procedure ................................................ 2
Hazardous Conditions ............................................ 26 Health Insurance .................................................... 29 Hours of Em ploym ent.............................................. 26
Instructional Com m ittee...........................................41
JCEA D irectors..........................................................12
Learning Centers (mobile) .......................................31 Leave ....................................................................... 33 Leave, Other ........................................................... 34 Legal Services ........................................................ 25 Lesson Plans ........................................................... 23 Life Insurance ....................................................... 29 Longe\dty ............................................................... 52 Lunch Period ........................................................... 24 Maternity Leave .................................................... 36
59
Meeting of Principal & JCEA Director .............. 12
Meeting of Superintendent & JCEA President .. 12
Meetings with P aren ts...............................
Mental Health Committee .................
Miliitary Service Leave ................................
Multi Media M aterials...............................................21
Nurse Salaries ........................................................ 50
No Reprisals C lau se............................................. 45
Non-teaching Duties ....................................
24
On-Call P eriod s...............
Parking Committee ................................................ 42
Personal B usiness...................................................... 39
Petty Cash F u n d s...................................................... 22 Pregnancy Illn e s s ...................................................... 37
Preparation Period ................................................ 22
Prior Service ............................................................ 52 Promotions ............................................................... 17 Protection of Teachers, P ro p e rty ........................... 25 Psychologists, Salaries.............................................. 48
Reading L a b s ..............................................................31 Recognition ............................................................... 1 Rest & Recuperation ............................................ 38 Rider J ......................................................................... 29
Rules and Regulations Overridden ..................... 46
Binary file (standard input) matches
