=== HEALTHCARE EXTRACTION: CBA_13 ===
Source: C:/Users/zachary.parolin/INETInequality Dropbox/INET Inequality Team/Projects/LLMs & Inequality/1_CBAs/Cornell Archive/Cornell-DoL/K811323_06_07combined.pdf
Total document lines: 2389
Extracted healthcare lines: 606
===========================================

10

ARTICLE 9 - EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
ARTICLE 10 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
11
ARTICLE 11 - CONTRACTING OUT
ARTICLE 12 - INSURANCE
ARTICLE 13 - SALARY AND WAGES
12
ARTICLE 14 - SALARY ADMINISTRATION
14
ARTICLE 15 - OVERTIME
15
ARTICLE 16 - DIFFERENTIALS
16
ARTICLE 17 - CALL-BACK TIME
17
ARTICLE 18 - REPORTING PAY
ARTICLE 19 - ON-CALL
--
47
ARTICLE 48 - LIMITED DURATION APPOINTMENT
ARTICLE 49 - PERSONNEL FILES
48
ARTICLE 50 - DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE
ARTICLE 51 - GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION
49
ARTICLE 52 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
51
ARTICLE 53 - STRESS/CAREER COUNSELING
--
53
LETTER OF AGREEMENT - Article 13 - Part-time Employee Health Insurance Subsidy 54
LETTER OF AGREEMENT - Article 13 - Additional Step Increase
55
LETTER OF AGREEMENT - Article 14 - Salary Administration
56
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - Article 25 - (EOCI) Bidding
57
LETTER OF AGREEMENT - Article 25 - (Transportation Unit) Hospital Watch
58
LETTER OF AGREEMENT - Article 25(1)(a) - (Salem Transportation Office) - Workweek....59
LETTER OF AGREEMENT - Change of Bid Shift and Days Off
60
COMP PLAN
61
4
2005-2007 AFSCME DOC Security
ARTICLE 1 - SCOPE OF AGREEMENT
Section 1 . This Agreement is made and entered into by and between the State of Oregon (hereinafter the
"Employer"), acting through its Department of Administrative Services, Labor Relations Unit on behalf of the Department of Corrections (hereinafter the "Agency"), and the American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees (AFL-CIO) (hereinafter the "Union"), and is binding upon the Union and the Employer and all designated representatives of the Union and the Employer.
Section 2. The Agencies recognize the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for the
employees within the certified or recognized bargaining units. All aspects of the employees' wages, hours, and other terms and conditions of employment shall be determined by this Agreement, except in regard to recruitment and selection of applicants for initial appointment to State service. The terms and conditions of employment set forth in this Agreement shall apply to all classified positions (except temporary positions and those positions excludable by ORS 243.650) within the appropriate bargaining units within the Department of Corrections which are:
a. Security Unit - Encompasses all classified employees in strike-prohibited classifications excluding supervisory and confidential employees as defined in ORS 243.650 and employees covered by the Association of Oregon Corrections Employees at Oregon State Penitentiary, Oregon State Correctional Institution, South Fork Forest Camp and Mill Creek Correctional Facility.
b. Oregon State Penitentiary Minimum - Encompasses all strike-prohibited classified employees, excluding supervisory and confidential employees defined in ORS 243.650, working within the Oregon State Penitentiary Minimum.
The parties agree that the term "classified employee" does not include temporary employees appointed under the provisions of ORS 240.380 or part-time employees who regularly work thirty-two (32) hours or less per month.
Section 3. If the Agency establishes a new position which is not clearly excluded from the bargaining unit
under ORS 243.650 or reclassifies an existing bargaining unit position, the Employer shall notify the Union in writing within seven (7) days following the action, as to whether or not it believes the classification to be within the bargaining unit. The Union must notify the Employer in writing within ten (10) days from receipt of the notification if it disagrees about the inclusion or exclusion of the classification in the bargaining unit or the matter becomes closed. If notice of the disagreement is received within the ten (10)-day period, the parties shall meet within fourteen (14) days of above notification to discuss the matter. If an agreement is not reached within thirty (30) days, the Union may submit the matter to the Employment Relations Board. Should the matter not be submitted to the Employment Relations Board within the specified thirty (30)-day period, the matter shall be considered resolved.
Section 4. This contract incorporates the sole and complete Agreement between the Agency and the
Union resulting from negotiations held pursuant to the provisions of ORS 243.650 et seq and supersedes all prior labor contracts. It is acknowledged that during negotiations which resulted in this Agreement, each party had the unlimited right and opportunity to make demands and proposals with respect to any subject or matter appropriate for collective bargaining and that the understandings and agreements arrived at by the parties after the exercise of that right and opportunity are set forth in this Agreement. It shall not be modified in whole or in part except by another written instrument duly executed by the parties.
5
Section 5.
a. The parties agree that the Human Resource Services Division Personnel Policies and
Agency Procedures relating to their implementation are without effect upon the Agency or members of
the bargaining units.
b. Other policies, procedures, and rules of the Agency which directly relate to mandatory
subjects of bargaining as defined by statute and which affect bargaining unit members on the day this
Agreement becomes effective shall be continued, unless modified or deleted elsewhere in this
Agreement. Should the Agency wish to change such a policy, procedure, or rule, or to issue a new
one, notice will be given to the Union. If the Union believes the policy, procedure, or rule to be
unreasonable, then within seven (7) days of the date upon which the Union knows, or by reasonable
diligence should have known, of the subject action, the Union shall request that the Agency meet to
discuss the issue.
c. Such meeting shall occur within fifteen (15) days of:
1. Agreement that the issue is a mandatory subject, or
2. An Employment Relations Board ruling that the issue is a mandatory subject of
bargaining.
If agreement which alters the policy, procedure or rule is reached, it shall be reduced to writing
and signed by both parties. If the parties are unable to reach an agreement within fourteen (14) days
--
the arbitrator, neither party can be considered the losing party, then such expenses shall be
apportioned as in the arbitrator's judgment is equitable. All other expenses shall be borne exclusively
by the party requiring the service or item for which payment is to be made.
g. Time limits specified in this procedure must be observed, unless either party requests a
specific extension of time, which, if agreed to, must be stipulated in writing and shall become part of
the record.
ARTICLE 2 - TERM OF AGREEMENT
Section 1 . This Agreement, and attachments hereto, shall be in full force and effect from the date of
signing of this Agreement, unless otherwise indicated in this Agreement, through June 30, 2007.
Section 2. The Union will notify the Agency of its selected representatives by December 15, 2006. The
bargaining team shall consist of one (1) member from each local covered by the terms of this Agreement. The Union may utilize up to one hundred (100) hours leave with pay per designated bargaining team representative for the purpose of actual negotiations. The one hundred (100) hours may be increased by mutual agreement of the employer and union.
Section 3. 6
Negotiations for a successor agreement will commence between January 2, 2007, and February 15, 2007, or sooner upon mutual agreement of the parties.
ARTICLE 3 - UNION SECURITY
Section 1 . New Employees. The Agency agrees to inform all new employees hired into positions included in the bargaining
unit of the Union's exclusive recognition, and shall provide all present and future employees in the bargaining unit with a copy of its Agreement, provided the parties shall share equally in the costs of preparation and distribution of the Agreement. The Agency agrees to allow duly certified Union Representatives thirty (30) minutes, when new employee orientation classes are held, to speak to new employees about the Union's exclusive recognition, its benefits, and services available to the membership. This time will not be used for discussion of labor-management disputes.
If the Union Representative is an employee of the institution, the representative will be allowed time off without loss of pay to make the presentation.
Section 2. Union Access. Accredited representatives of the Local, District Council 75, or International American
Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, AFL-CIO, upon proper introduction and notice, shall have reasonable access to the premises of the Agency during all working hours to conduct Union business (with appropriate observation of the security regulations of the Agency). During periods of bona fide emergency, this provision may be temporarily suspended by the Agency as required for the duration of the emergency.
Section 3. Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, the internal business of the Union shall be
conducted by the employees during non-duty time. All policies, procedures, and rules, and all provisions of this Agreement shall be applied
equitably among employees to whom they apply.
Section 4. Stewards. The Union may select, and shall certify in writing to the Agency, employees to act as Union
Stewards. Stewards shall have authority to investigate and resolve grievances and to distribute Union informational material provided that such activity does not interfere with the regular work routine with prior approval of management. The investigation and processing of employee grievances will be permitted during working hours without loss of compensation. If the permitted activities would interfere with either the Steward's or the grievant's duties, management shall, within the next working day, arrange a mutually satisfactory time for the requested activities. Time spent in grievance activities without the proper notification and release by an appropriate supervisor involved will be considered unauthorized leave without pay for both the Steward and the grievant. An employee may request and have present a Shop Steward or Union Representative at any formal discussion on disciplinary actions, or grievance proceedings, or any other matter that might adversely and substantially affect their future employment, pay, or chances for promotion.
Management will provide written notification to an officer of the Local Union and the Union Business Agent of an impending disciplinary action (suspension, reduction, demotion or dismissal) against an employee.
Section 5. Union Business Leave. AFSCME shall indemnify and hold the State and Agency harmless against any and all claims,
damages, suits, or other forms of liability which may arise out of any action taken or not taken by the Employer and/or Agency for the purpose of complying with this provision.
--
If any provision of this Agreement shall be found to be invalid by any court having jurisdiction in respect, thereof, such findings as to such provision shall not affect the remainder of this Agreement, and all other terms and provisions hereof shall continue in full force and effect as set forth herein. In such event, the parties shall enter into immediate negotiations for the purpose of arriving at a mutually satisfactory replacement for such term or provision.
Section 1 . The Agency and the Union agree to continue their policies of not unlawfully discriminating
against any employee because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, mental or physical
disability, marital status, political affiliation, or union activity. Neither will the Agency discriminate based on sexual orientation.
Section 2. Any complaint alleging unlawful discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, national
origin, age, mental or physical disability, marital status or political affiliation which is brought to the Union for processing will be submitted directly to the designated appointing authority. If such a grievance is not satisfactorily resolved within thirty (30) days of its submission, it may be submitted to the Bureau of Labor and Industries for resolution.
Section 3. Complaints alleging discrimination based on sexual orientation may be submitted by the Union
to the Department of Administrative Services, Labor Relations Unit if not resolved by the Agency. The Labor Relations Unit will review the complaint, attempt to resolve it, and issue its findings to the Agency and the Union. Such complaints may not be advanced pursuant to Article 51.
Section 4. If an employee has a grievance alleging unlawful discrimination based on union activity, it shall
be first pursued through the grievance procedure, however, the parties may mutually agree, in writing, to waive arbitration on any such grievance allowing the matter to be resolved through the Employment Relations Board.
The Union agrees that the Employer retains all inherent rights of management and hereby recognizes the sole and exclusive right of the State of Oregon, as the Employer, to operate and manage its affairs in accordance with its responsibilities to maintain efficient governmental operations. The Employer retains all rights to direct the work of its employees, including, but not limited to, the right to hire, promote, assign, transfer, demote, suspend, or discharge employees for proper cause; to schedule work; determine the processes for accomplishing work; to relieve employees from duties because of lack of work or for other legitimate reasons; to take action as necessary to carry out the missions of the State; or determine the methods, means, and personnel by which operations are to be carried on, except as modified or circumscribed by the terms of this Agreement. The retention of these rights does not preclude any employee from filing a grievance, pursuant to Article 51, Grievance and Arbitration, or seeking a review of the exercise of these rights, when it is alleged such exercise violates provisions of this Agreement.
The Agency may determine to contract or subcontract work provided that, as to work which is presently and regularly performed by employees in the bargaining unit, the Agency agrees to notify the Union and negotiate the decision and impact of the pending action. It is specifically understood that such negotiations are not required in 1) emergency situations, 2) where the impact is minimal (and not mandatory), or 3) where the assignment of work currently being performed by the bargaining unit members is transferred to other State facilities.
Section 1 . An Employer contribution will be made for each eligible employee who has at least eighty (80)
paid regular hours in the month.
The contribution for eligible participating part time employees with eighty (80) or more hours paid time for the month will be prorated based on the ratio of paid regular hours to full-time hours to the nearest full percent.
a. Effective January 1 , 2005 through December 3 1 , 2005, the Employer shall make a contribution sufficient to cover the premium costs for PEBB health, dental and basic life benefits chosen by each eligible full-time employees who has at least eighty (80) paid regular hours in a month.
These Employer contributions are understood to currently cost a monthly composite of eight hundred eighteen dollars ($818) per eligible full-time employee statewide.
b. For plan year 2006, the Employer will increase its monthly contributions a sufficient amount beyond the 2005 statewide composite ($818) to continue to fully pay the PEBB health, dental and basic life benefits chosen by each eligible full-time employee who has at least eighty (80) paid regular hours in a month.
c. For plan year January 1 , 2007 through December 31, 2007 the Employer will increase its monthly contributions by up to twelve percent (12%) of the actual monthly composite resulting for plan year 2006, should the cost of insurance premiums increase by that amount or more.
Section 2. PEBB Petition. Should rates for plan year 2007 exceed the Employer contribution, the parties will jointly
petition the Pubic Employees Benefit Board to use reserve funding to support a portion, or all, of any premium increase above twelve (12) percent.
In the event the premium increase in excess of twelve percent (12%) is not covered by PEBB reserves, the two percent (2%) salary schedule adjustment (12/01/2006) shall be reduced by onequarter of one percent (0.25%) for each one percent (1%) increase in insurance premiums above twelve percent (12%).
The parties may also jointly petition the PEBB to continue to do as follows: Employees who live in counties where the PEBB considers there to be an insufficient number of preferred providers within the PPO network will receive the same level of benefits when they use a non-preferred provider as they would using a preferred provider.
Section 1 . Public Employees Retirement System ("PERS") Members. For purposes of this Section 1 , "employee" means an employee who is employed by the State
on August 28, 2003 and who is eligible to receive benefits under ORS Chapter 238 for service with the State pursuant to Section 2 of Chapter 733, Oregon Laws 2003.
Retirement Contributions. On behalf of employees, the State will continue to "pick up" the six percent (6%) employee contribution, payable pursuant to law. The parties acknowledge that various challenges have been filed that contest the lawfulness, including the constitutionality, of various aspects of PERS reform legislation enacted by the 2003 Legislative Assembly, including Chapters 67 (HB 2003) and 68 (HB 2004) of Oregon Laws 2003 ("PERS Litigation"). Nothing in this Agreement shall constitute a waiver of any party's rights, claims or defenses with respect to the PERS Litigation.
Section 2. Oregon Public Service Retirement Plan Pension Program Members. For purposes of this Section 2, "employee" means an employee who is employed by the State
on or after August 29, 2003 and who is not eligible to receive benefits under ORS Chapter 238 for service with the State pursuant to Section 2 of Chapter 733, Oregon Laws 2003.
Contributions to Individual Account Programs. As of the date that an employee becomes a member of the Individual Account Program established by Section 29 of Chapter 733, Oregon Laws 2003, and pursuant to Section 3 of that same chapter, the State will pay an amount equal to six percent (6%) of the employee's monthly salary, not to be deducted from the salary, as the employee's contribution to the employee's account in that program. The employee's contributions paid by the State under this Section 2 shall not be considered to be "salary" for the purposes of determining the
amount of employee contributions required to be contributed pursuant to Section 32 of Chapter 733, Oregon Laws 2003.
Section 3. Effect of Changes in Law (Other than PERS Litigation). In the event that the State's payment of a six percent (6%) employee contribution under Section
1 or under Section 2, as applicable, must be discontinued due to a change in law, valid ballot measure, constitutional amendment, or a final, non-appealable judgment from a court of competent jurisdiction (other than in the PERS Litigation), the State shall increase by six percent (6%) the base salary rates for each classification in the salary schedules in lieu of the six percent (6%) pick-up. This transition shall be done in a manner to assure continuous payment of either the six percent (6%) contribution or a six percent (6%) salary increase.
For the reasons indicated above, or by mutual agreement, if the State ceases paying the applicable six percent (6%) pickup and instead provides a salary increase for eligible bargaining unit employees during the term of the Agreement, and bargaining unit employees are able, under thenexisting law, to make their own six percent (6%) contributions to their PERS account or the Individual Account Program account, as applicable, such employees' contributions shall be treated as "pre-tax" contributions pursuant to Internal Revenue Code, Section 414(h)(2).
Section 4. Salary Adjustments. a. Effective January 1 , 2006, salary rates will be adjusted upward by two percent (2%). b. Effective January 1 , 2006, Correctional Officers, Corporals and Sergeants shall receive
a one-and-one-quarter percent (1.25%) market adjustment. c. Effective December 1 , 2006, Compensation Plan salary rates shall be increased by two
percent (2%). d. Effective July 1 , 2006, an additional step shall be added to all salary ranges.
Implementation shall be on a least cost basis. Employees who have been at the top step of their salary range on the effective date shall have their former salary eligibility date restored for future increases. This does not apply to anyone red circled above new top step.
Section 5. Recoupment of Wage and Benefit Overpayments/Underpayments. a. Overpayments. In the event that an employee receives wages or benefits from the
Agency to which the employee is not entitled, regardless of whether the employee knew or should have known of the overpayment, the Agency shall notify the employee in writing of the overpayment which will include information supporting that an overpayment exists and the amount of wages and/or benefits to be repaid. For purposes of recovering overpayments by payroll deduction, the following shall apply.
1. The employee with or without Union representation and the Agency shall meet and attempt to reach mutual agreement on a repayment schedule within thirty (30) calendar days following written notification. The employee, with or without Union representation and the Agency shall meet and attempt to reach mutual agreement on a repayment schedule within thirty (30) days following written notification.
2. If there is no mutual agreement at the end of the thirty (30) calendar day period the Agency shall implement the repayment schedule stated in subsection 3 below.
3. If the overpayment amount to be repaid is more than five percent (5%) of the employee's regular monthly base salary, the overpayment shall be recovered in monthly amounts not exceeding five percent (5%) of the employee's regular base salary. If an overpayment is less than five percent (5%) of the employee's regular monthly base salary, the overpayment shall be recovered in a lump sum deduction from the employee's paycheck. If an employee leaves Agency service before the Agency fully recovers the overpayment, the remaining amount may be deducted from the employee's final check(s).
4. Subsections 1-3 of this Section shall not apply to payroll adjustments necessitated by a discrepancy between actual hours of paid time versus hours projected for payroll purposes from one pay period to another. For example, if an employee utilizes leave without pay near the end of a month but is paid for such time because such leave without pay was not anticipated at the
13
payroll cutoff date for that month, the employee's pay and benefit entitlements may be adjusted on the following month's paycheck.
5. The Agency shall not attempt to correct any overpayment to employees discovered older than two (2) years from notification.
b. Underpayments. In the event the employee does not receive the wages or benefits to which the record/documentation has for all times indicated the employer agreed the employee was entitled, the Agency shall notify the employee in writing of the underpayment. This notification will include information showing that an underpayment exists and the amount of wages and/or benefits to be repaid. The Agency shall correct any such underpayment made within a maximum period of two (2) years before the notification.
c. This provision shall not apply to claims disputing eligibility for payments which result from this agreement. Employees claiming eligibility for such things as leadwork, work out-ofclassification pay or reclassification must pursue those claims pursuant to the timelines elsewhere in this Agreement.
Section 1 . Employees shall be eligible for annual performance pay increases on the employees' eligibility
date provided the employee is not at the top step of the salary range of the employees' classification. The employee may be denied the annual performance pay increase if there has been a serious performance or attendance problem. Denials are subject to review within six (6) months. Denials may be grieved under the provisions of Article 51.
Effective January 1 , 2006 step increases shall resume pursuant to the terms of the agreement at the time of each eligible employee's salary eligibility date.
Section 2. Any employee requiring an emergency draw shall be authorized once during the term of this
Agreement to make such a draw without explanation. Additional draws may be requested in accord with existing policy and will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
Section 3. Submission of Salary Increases. Salary increases must be made to be effective on the first day of the month and must be
submitted prior to the proposed effective date. However, salary increases to correct errors or oversights and retroactive payments resulting from grievance settlements will be authorized. The effective date for annual salary increases shall be on the employee's salary eligibility date. In no event shall any retroactivity exceed twelve (12) months from the date upon which the oversight or error is brought to management's attention in writing, or, in the case of a grievance settlement, the date the grievance was filed in writing.
Section 4. Salary on Promotion. An employee shall be given an increase to the next higher rate in the new salary range effective
on the date of the promotion and on the first of the month following completion of trial service after promotion and annually thereafter until employee has reached the top step of the salary range.
Section 5. Salary on Demotion. Whenever an employee demotes to a job classification in a lower range that has a salary rate
the same as the previous step, the employee's salary shall be maintained at that step in the lower range.
Whenever an employee demotes to a job classification in a salary range which does not have salary steps corresponding with the employee's previous salary but is within the new salary range, the employee's salary shall be maintained at the current rate until the next eligibility date. At the
employee's next eligibility date, if qualified, the employee shall be granted a salary rate increase of one (1) full step within the new salary range plus that amount that their current salary is below the next higher rate in the salary range. This increase shall not exceed the highest rate in the new salary range.
Whenever an employee demotes to a job classification in a lower range, but the employee's previous salary is above the highest step for that range, the employee shall be paid at the highest step in the new salary range.
This Section shall not apply to demotions resulting from official disciplinary actions.
Section 6. Effect of Break in Service. When an employee separates from State service and subsequently returns to the State service
(except as a temporary employee), the employee's salary eligibility date shall be determined by the Agency as follows:
a. Return from Layoff List. When a former employee who was laid off is recalled, the employee will be paid at the step they were at the time of layoff. Employee's previous salary eligibility date adjusted by the amount of break in service shall be restored.
b. Return from Reemployment. When a former employee is reemployed to a position in the same class in which the employee was previously employed or in a related class with the same salary range, the employee may be paid at or below the step at which the employee was being paid at the time of termination. If an employee is reemployed in a position in a class with a lower salary range than that of the employee's previous position, the employee may be paid at any step in the lower salary range not exceeding the rate the employee was being paid in the higher class, except where exceptional circumstances justify payment of a higher rate. The previous eligibility date adjusted by the amount of break in service shall represent the earliest salary eligibility date following return. However, the salary eligibility date may be established by the Agency as the first of the month in any future month up to twelve (12) months from date of reemployment.
--
Pagers or similar technology does not trigger on-call status.
Section 3. When a work site or duty station is also an employee's private residence during off duty hours,
time spent at home shall be considered on-call only when the following conditions exist: a. The Agency Appointing Authority or designated representative requires that an employee be restricted to a work site or duty station for a specific period of time; and b. The employee is required and must be prepared to commence full-time work if the need arises.
Section 4. An employee shall not be on call once the employee actually commences performing assigned
duties and receive the appropriate rate of pay for time worked.
Section 5. No employee is eligible for any premium pay compensation while on call except as expressly
stated in this Article.
Section 6. Employees who are exempt from overtime compensation shall be ineligible for on-call pay.
Section 7. On-call time shall not be counted as time worked in the computation of overtime compensation.
Section 8. Employees on forest fire assignment who are off duty shall be considered on call unless the
Employer notifies the employee otherwise.
ARTICLE 20 - WORK OUT OF CLASSIFICATION
Section 1 . When an employee is assigned in writing for a limited period to perform the duties of a position
at a higher level classification for more than five (5) consecutive calendar days, the employee shall be compensated for all hours worked beginning from the first day of the assignment for the full period of the assignment at a rate which is not less than the equivalent of a one (1)-step increase, or the bottom step of the higher range when no salary overlap exists between ranges.
Section 2.
18
An employee performing duties out of classification for training or developmental purposes shall be informed in writing of the purpose and length of the assignment during which there shall be no extra pay for the work. A copy of the notice shall be placed in the employee's file.
Section 3. An employee who is underfilling a position shall be informed in writing of their underfill status,
the reasons for the underfill, and the requirements necessary for the employee to qualify for reclassification to the allocated level. Upon gaining regular status and meeting the requirements for the allocated level of the position, the employee shall be reclassified.
Section 4. Assignments of work out-of-classification shall not be made in a manner which will subvert or
circumvent the administration of this Article. This higher class work will be entered into the employee's personnel file and shall be used for annual performance appraisals and will be taken into consideration by supervisors during promotional merit ratings.
ARTICLE 21 - LEADWORK DIFFERENTIAL
Section 1 . Leadwork differential shall be defined as a differential for employees who have been formally
assigned by their supervisor, in writing, "leadwork" duties over three (3) or more employees in their classification or salary range for ten (10) consecutive calendar days or longer. Leadwork is where, on a recurring daily basis, while performing essentially the same duties as the workers led, the employee has been directed to perform substantially all of the following functions: to orient new employees, if appropriate; assign and reassign tasks to accomplish prescribed work efficiently; give direction to workers concerning work procedures; transmit established standards of performance to workers; review work of employees for conformance to standards; and provide informal assessment of workers' performance to the supervisor.
Section 2. The differential shall be five percent (5%) beginning from the first day the duties were formally
assigned in writing for the full period of the assignment.
Section 3. Leadwork differential shall not be computed at the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2) for the time
worked in an overtime or holiday work situation, or to effect a "pyramiding" of work out-of- classification payment.
Section 4. Leadwork differential shall not apply for voluntary training and development purposes which are
mutually agreed to in writing between the supervisor and the employee.
Section 5. The employee who believes they are performing the duties of a leadworker as defined in
Section 1 , may request a review of the duties as follows: a. The employee shall notify their supervisor and appropriate Personnel Officer, in writing for a review. b. The supervisor, on behalf of the Agency, will respond to the employee in writing, within fifteen (15) calendar days from the date of notification. c. If it is the Agency's determination that the leadwork duties were assigned, the leadwork differential will be effective the date the employee notified the supervisor. d. If the Agency determines that the duties are not leadworker or wishes to remove the duties, the employee will be notified as noted in "b" of this Article.
19
ARTICLE 22 - TRAVEL AND MOVING EXPENSE Section 1 .
--
and end at 12:00 Midnight the following Saturday. All permanent full-time employees in the unit shall be scheduled for five (5) shifts of eight (8)
hours and two (2) consecutive days off within each workweek, or four (4) shifts of ten (10) hours and three (3) consecutive days off within each workweek. Saturday and Sunday will be considered as consecutive days off within the workweek.
b. Workweek Adjustments. If a variance from this paragraph is required in order to accomplish the mission of the Institution, the Agency shall notify the Union of the reasons for the change prior to its effective date and the Union shall be afforded an opportunity to comment and offer alternative suggestions. If the Union feels the change is unreasonable, the matter may be processed as a grievance.
Section 2. Working Hours.
a. Work Hours Defined. The standard workday shall be a period of twenty-four (24) hours,
containing eight (8) or ten (10) consecutive hours of work interrupted by rest and meal periods.
b. Rest Periods. Rest periods will normally consist of two (2), fifteen (15) minute breaks.
Rest periods preferably will occur between the second (2nd) and third (3rd) hours and the fifth (5th)
and sixth (6th) hours of the employee's shift. However, it is understood that breaks are not guaranteed
at regular and recurring intervals. Management agrees to make reasonable effort to allow rest breaks
where possible, but does not guarantee that breaks will be granted on every work shift or that they will
occur at regular and recurring intervals.
c.
Security & Recreation staff. Where security and recreation staff have a past practice
allowing informal breaks to occur, that practice shall continue on a reasonable basis consistent with
Section 2b above.
d. Split Shifts. Computer generated work schedules will be reviewed and a good faith
effort made to minimize the number of schedules which contain split shifts.
Section 3. Meal Periods at Institutions. a. Scheduling. A meal period shall be scheduled for each employee at approximately the
mid-period of the workday, as work permits. This period shall begin upon the employee being relieved and shall end upon the employee's return to the work station.
b. Overtime. A reasonable meal period shall be allowed at the conclusion of a regular shift when a security employee is required to work overtime shifts of at least four (4) hours beyond the employee's regular shift. The Agency shall furnish the meal, and the time shall count as time worked. If an employee is called back to work a full four (4)-hour overtime shift with less than two (2) hours notice, the employee's meal will be furnished by the Agency.
24
c.
--
ii. The parties will agree upon a process of bidding based on scheduled
appointments and current bid status. The new assignment schedule will be
posted no less than seven (7) calendar days prior to the effective date.
iii. Five (5) assignments will be exempt from bidding and reserved for the training of
new employees when required. Three (3) of these assignments are SUMMIT
relief community officers, two (2) of which have days off during Monday through
Friday.
e. Employees will not be permitted to secure, through bidding, the same shift more than
three (3) times consecutively.
Section 2. Exceptions to Work Schedule Bidding.
27
a. The institution's management will make the specific work assignments for Community
Officers and training slots on each shift. Removal from these assignments may occur for valid cause.
b.
--
a. Work Schedule Bidding. 1. Employees may submit their bid for a shift and days off work schedule following
the posting of the work schedule by the Agency. The Agency will post the work schedule for bidding twenty-five (25) calendar days prior to the rotation date. Following the posting of the work schedule for each bid rotation period, the process for bidding will commence on the Monday following the posting as specified in this Article. The Agency will post a list of times and dates for each staff member to bid. This does not preclude an employee from bidding in advance of their scheduled time but their bid(s) will not be posted by the Agency until the time indicated on the bidding form for each employee. The new work schedule for each bid period shall be posted no less than seven (7) calendar days prior to the rotation date. Employees will submit their bid to the Shift Commander in seniority order each thirty (30) minutes until all employees have the opportunity to bid. The parties shall meet to review the mechanics of the bidding procedure.
2. Bids will address start and stop times for all shifts and days off work schedules. Employees may submit up to three (3) bids. Employees may bid in person, by telephone, or by proxy. Bids shall be submitted in priority order. Employees shall secure a shift and days off work schedule in order of seniority as defined in Section 8 of this Article along with the exceptions as noted in subsection b of this Article
28
3. The parties agree that the intent of this Section is to provide as many work and training opportunities as possible for all security staff, regardless of seniority, while recognizing the importance of seniority and the individual choices of staff.
4. Employees shall not be permitted to secure, through bidding, the same consecutive days off, on the same shift more than two (2) times annually. Employees hired in between bid periods will be assigned by the Agency. Employees who successfully bid or are assigned to a Flex position shall secure a shift and days off work schedule through the bid process and shall revert back to the shift and days off when not assigned by the Agency to relieve other security employees. (The intent of this Section is that employees who successfully bid or is assigned to a Flex Variable Position will primarily provide relief to other security employees on the shift the position is assigned to.)
5. Bidding shall occur every four (4) as months becoming effective on the second Sunday of March, July and November. The parties agree to meet and confer if a six (6)-month rotation system is being considered.
6. During each bid rotation period, the Agency will identify certain work schedules for employees assigned as inmate work crew supervisors that may be assigned to rotate five (5) shifts of eight (8) hours and two (2) consecutive days off within each workweek, or four (4) shifts of ten (10) hours and three (3) days off. Employees assigned as work crew supervisors may volunteer for these alternate schedules at the time of the bid on the bid sheet in order to help carry out the inmate work program mission of the Agency. The Agency shall first assign employees who are assigned as work crew supervisors and who volunteer to change their work schedule between a 5-8 work schedule and a 4-10 work schedule before a change in schedule is made. If there are not sufficient employees who volunteer to move between these schedules during the bid period as needed by the Agency in carrying out its inmate work program mission, employees assigned to these duties may be assigned to a 4-10 schedule in reverse seniority order for a period of time during the bid as needed to carry out the work program needs of the Agency. The Agency will revert any affected employee(s) back to their bid shift and days off work schedule when the employee has completed the 4-10 work schedule assignment. Employees will be given seven (7) days written notice of change in schedule.
b. Breaking Ties in Seniority. After May 1 , 2003, all employees shall have their seniority established in accordance with section 8 of this Article. The following exceptions are as follows:
1. New Hires - Newly hired employees with the same date of hire shall have their seniority established by a one-time lottery drawing (i.e., draw a number from a hat) with a local union officer present.
--
defined in Section 9 of this Article. Security staff hired in between bid periods will be assigned by the Security Manager.
The parties agree that the intent of this Section is to provide as many work and training opportunities as possible for all security staff regardless of seniority while recognizing the importance of seniority and the individual choices of staff.
Security staff will bid every six (6) months for rotation effective the first (1st) Sunday of October and April.
b. Sergeants' Responsibilities/Duties. Sergeants will have leadwork responsibility over subordinate Correctional Corporals and Officers.
Two Rivers Correctional Institution
Bidding Process. Each security staff member who has completed trial service may bid shifts and days off in order of seniority. Seniority is defined in Section 9 of this Article. Employees who fail to successfully bid or who do not apply to bid, will be assigned at the discretion of the institution's management.
For the purpose of DSU assignments there will be a separate bid sheet specifically for DSU. This will occur simultaneously with the normal bid process. In DSU, trial service staff will not be available for cell extraction teams. When trial service staff are assigned to DSU, every effort will be made to partner them to a permanent DSU staff.
At least seven (7) days prior to shift and vacation bids, management and the union will meet to review the process, give comment and help alleviate any foreseeable problems to the bid through dialogue that arises. The bid processes shall be done through a mutual consultation of management and the union with the knowledge that management maintains all of its rights of Article 10 pertaining to this process.
Bids will address only shifts and days off. Bidding will occur every six (6) months, becoming effective on the first Sunday of April and October.
a. For shifts and days off assignments that are identified to a specific post an employee cannot use seniority to secure that assignment for more than two (2) consecutive bids.
b. Institution management will make the specific daily work schedules and may only remove or deny an employee from a work schedule for valid cause.
c. The assigned posts listed below shall be held for a maximum period of two (2) years, at which time the incumbent must return to a bid assignment. In the event of circumstances beyond the control of the institution, management may temporarily hold an employee in one (1) of these assignments not to exceed an additional six (6) months.
--
5. The Tool and Key Control Sergeant is designated as an exempt post. No employee may fill that assignment for more than two (2) consecutive years. To fill/backfill this post, Management will seek memos from interested sergeants and an interview process will be conducted by a labor/management team. The sergeant backfilling this post will train with the current Tool and Key Control Sergeant as staffing allows and will become the new Tool and Key Control Sergeant when the current individual's assignment is concluded.
The labor/management team will determine the mechanics of the bidding process. The parties agree to review the mechanics and make necessary changes after each bid. Any agreed changes to the mechanics of the bidding process will be provided to staff no later than thirty (30) days prior to the bid.
The parties agree that the intent of this Section is to provide as many work and training opportunities as possible for all security staff, regardless of seniority, while recognizing the importance of seniority and the individual choice of staff.
The institution's management team will make the specific daily work schedules and may only remove or deny an employee from their bid for valid cause.
OSP Minimum Facility
a. Correctional Series Staff who have completed trial service may bid shifts and days off in order of seniority as defined in Section 9 of this Article. Employees who fail to successfully bid, or who do not bid, will be assigned at the discretion of Facility Management.
Bids will address only shift and days off. Bidding will occur every six (6) months, becoming effective with the first Sunday of April and October. The Facility Manager shall post work schedules forty-five (45) calendar days before the rotation date. Bidding will commence in order of seniority by appointment approximately thirty (30) calendar days prior to rotation date. Staff may bid in person, by telephone, or they may submit up to three (3) bids in order of preference in writing. The new schedule will be posted no less than seven (7) calendar days prior to the rotation date. Facility Management will make specific daily work schedules and may remove or deny an employee from a bid for valid cause.
--
j.
Every day appointed by the Governor of the State of Oregon as a holiday and every day
appointed by the President of the United States as a day of mourning, rejoicing, or other
special observance only when the Governor also appoints that day as a holiday.
For all employees who work in positions that are staffed five (5) days a week, Monday through
Friday, when a holiday falls on Saturday, the previous Friday shall be recognized as the holiday.
When a holiday falls on Sunday, the following Monday shall be recognized as the holiday.
For all employees who work in positions that are staffed seven (7) days a week, the recognized
holiday will be the actual day specified in Section 1 above.
Section 3. Employees who are required to work on days recognized as holidays which fall within their
regular work schedules shall be entitled, in addition to their regular salary, to compensatory time off for the time worked or to be paid in cash for time worked at the discretion of the Agency. Compensatory time off or cash paid for all time worked shall be at the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2). The additional compensation which an employee shall be paid for working on a holiday shall not exceed the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2) of the employee's straight time pay. Any compensatory time earned may be converted to cash payment by the Agency. Holiday benefits shall be prorated for part-time employees.
Section 4. Where an employee has been approved to work an alternate work schedule such as a four (4)
day, ten (10)-hour workweek, management shall either revert the schedule to a five (5) day, eight (8)hour workweek or allow the employee to utilize other available paid leave for the balance of the holiday off.
Section 5. Holidays which occur during vacation or sick leave shall not be charged against such leave.
ARTICLE 32 - VACATION LEAVE
Section 1 . The parties agree that an employee's vacation accrual is an earned benefit to which the
employee is entitled. Therefore, at no time shall accrued vacation time be utilized without specific authorization of the employee or contract.
Section 2. After having served in the State service for six (6) full calendar months, full-time employees
shall be credited with six (6) days of vacation leave and thereafter vacation leave shall be accumulated as follows:
After six (6) months through 5th year After 5th year through 10th year After 10th year through 15th year After 15th year through 20th year After 20th year
15 work days for each 12 full calendar months of service (10 hours per month) 18 work days for each 12 full calendar months of service (12 hours per month) 21 workdays for each 12 full calendar months of service (14 hours per month) 24 workdays for each 12 full calendar months of service (16 hours per month) 27 workdays for each 12 full calendar
35
months of service (18 hours per month)
Additional eight (8) hours of vacation leave, on July 1 of each year, shall be accrued by each full-time employee if the employee is employed as of July 1 of each year. Trial service employees will not be eligible to use until the employee completes trial service.
Section 3. Compensation for use of accrued vacation shall be at the employee's prevailing straight time
--
working less than a full month but at least thirty-two (32) hours shall accrue sick leave on a pro rata basis.
Section 2. Temporary employees who are subsequently appointed to permanent positions covered by this
Agreement, in the same class in which they were employed as a temporary, without a break in service of fifteen (15) days or more shall be credited with sick leave from their most recent temporary appointment date.
Section 3. Whenever an employee accepts an appointment in another agency of State service covered by
this Agreement, the employee's accrued sick leave in the former agency shall be assumed by the new employing agency.
Section 4. Employees who have been separated from the State service and return to a position, except as
a temporary, within two (2) years shall have unused sick leave credits accrued during previous employment restored.
Section 5. Actual time worked and all leave with pay, except for educational leave, shall be included in
determining the pro rata accrual of sick leave credits each month provided that the employee works thirty-two (32) hours or more that month. Employees shall be eligible to utilize sick leave immediately upon accrual.
37
Section 6. Employees who have earned sick leave credits shall be eligible for sick leave for any period of
absence from employment which is due to the employee's illness, bodily injury, disability resulting from pregnancy, necessity for medical or dental care, exposure to contagious disease, attendance upon members of the employee's immediate family (employee's parents, wife, husband, children, brother, sister, grandmother, grandfather, grandchild, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, or another member of the immediate household including the PEBB definition of domestic partners) where employee's presence is required because of illness or death, in the immediate family of the employee, the employee's spouse, or domestic partner. The Agency has the duty to require that the employee make other arrangements, within a reasonable period of time, for the attendance upon children or other persons in the employee's care. Certification of an attending physician or practitioner may be required by the Agency to support the employee's claim for sick leave, if the employee is absent in excess of seven (7) days, or if the Agency has evidence that the employee is abusing sick leave privileges. The Agency may also require such certificate from an employee to determine whether the employee should be allowed to return to work where the Agency has reason to believe that the employee's return to work would be a health hazard to either the employee or to others. Any cost associated with the supplying of a certificate concerning a job-incurred injury or illness that is not covered by Workers' Compensation benefits shall be borne by the Agency.
Section 7. If an employee's sick leave accrual should become exhausted, the employee may, at the
employee's option, with management's approval, utilize any vacation, or compensatory time they have accrued.
An employee may use accrued vacation or compensatory time upon expiration of sick leave credits unless the employee is on a written notice involving attendance problems. Employees on approved FMLA/OFLA leave would continue to be able to use accrued vacation or compensatory time.
Section 8. Salary paid for a period of sick leave resulting from a condition incurred on the job and also
covered by Workers' Compensation, shall be equal to the difference between the Workers' Compensation for lost time and the employee's regular salary rate. In such instances, prorated charges will be made against accrued sick leave.
Should an employee who has exhausted earned sick leave elect to use vacation leave or compensatory time during a period in which Workers' Compensation is being received, the salary paid for such period shall be equal to the difference between the Workers' Compensation for lost time and the employee's regular salary rate. In such instances, prorated charges will be made against accrued vacation leave.
Staff Assaults. Staff who are off duty and on time loss because of an inmate committing an Assault I shall:
a. Continue vacation and sick leave accrual while on time loss. Accrued vacation leave shall not exceed two hundred fifty (250) hours.
b. Have the option of sick leave proration use as noted under Section 8.
Section 9. Hardship Leave.
The Agency will allow employees to make irrevocable donations of accumulated vacation leave
to a co-worker who has exhausted accumulated leave while recuperating from an extended illness or
injury or attending an immediate family member suffering from illness or injury. Hardship leave
donations will be administered under the following stipulations and the terms of this Agreement shall
be strictly enforced with no exceptions.
a. The donor must be a regular employee of the Agency.
b. The Agency shall not assume any tax liabilities that would otherwise accrue to the
employee.
Use of donated leave shall be consistent with the other Sections of this Article.
38
d. Applications for hardship leave shall be in writing and sent to the Agency's Personnel
--
Donations shall be used to reimburse the Agency for such costs as are incurred for insurance
contributions, unless health insurance contributions are mandated under the Family Medical Leave Act
(FMLA). In FMLA situations, the Agency will continue to pay for the employee's health insurance
contribution until the employee's qualifying FMLA period ends. Donees will be allowed to keep forty
(40) hours of donated leave for future use after they return to work. All other unused donated leave will
be returned to donors per Agency policy.
g. Employees otherwise eligible for or receiving workers compensation or on parental leave
will not be considered eligible to receive donations under this Agreement.
h. Time spent by the recipient on donated hardship leave shall not count toward
completion of the employee's initial trial service period, nor towards salary eligibility dates for a step
increase. When the recipient is released to return to duty, the end of the initial trial service and salary
eligibility date will be adjusted by the period of the donated hardship leave taken.
Section 10. If, while performing assigned duties during his/her assigned shift, the employee has an on the
job injury, and such injury requires immediate medical treatment, the employee will not be required to use accrued sick leave while obtaining medical treatment. Once immediate medical treatment is completed, the employee will immediately return to work to complete his/her assigned shift, or, shall become subject to the workers compensation regulations.
ARTICLE 34 - SICK LEAVE WITHOUT PAY
Section 1 . After earned sick leave has been exhausted, the Appointing Authority shall grant sick leave
without pay for any job-incurred injury or illness for a period which shall terminate upon demand by the employee for reinstatement accompanied by a certificate issued by the duly licensed attending physician that the employee is physically and/or mentally able to perform the duties of the position.
After earned sick leave has been exhausted, the Appointing Authority shall grant sick leave without pay for any non-job-incurred injury or illness to any employee upon request for a period up to one (1) year provided such leave will not seriously handicap the work of the Agency. Extensions of sick leave without pay for any non-job-incurred injury or illness beyond one (1) year must be approved by the Appointing Authority.
The Appointing Authority may require that the employee submit a certificate from the attending physician or practitioner in verification of disability resulting from job-incurred or non-job-incurred injury or illness.
Any cost associated with the supplying of a certificate concerning a job-incurred injury or illness that is not covered by Workers' Compensation benefits shall be borne by the Agency.
Section 2. In the event of a failure or refusal by an employee on a non-job related sick leave without pay to
supply such a certificate, or if the certificate does not clearly show sufficient disability to preclude that employee from the performance of duties, such sick leave may be canceled by registered letter to the last known address. Failure to return to work or supply a certificate within five (5) days of delivery or attempted delivery shall be deemed a resignation.
ARTICLE 35 - FAMILY LEAVE
39
Employees determined to be eligible in accordance with provisions of federal and State leave laws shall have all the rights, and be subject to all of the requirements of those laws. Such laws include, but are not limited to, the Federal Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (FMLA) and the Oregon Family Medical Leave Act (OFLA) (ORS 659A.150-186).
ARTICLE 36 - LEAVES WITH PAY
Employees shall be granted a leave of absence with pay in accordance with the following:
a. Service with a jury. The employee may keep any money paid by the court for serving on
jury.
b. Appearances before a court, legislative committee, or judicial body as a witness in
response to a subpoena or other direction by proper authority for matters relating to the
employee's officially assigned duties. The employee may keep any money paid in
connection with the appearance.
c. Taking part without pay in a search and rescue operation at the specific request of any
law enforcement agency, the Administrator of the Board of Aeronautics, the United
States Forest Service, or any local organization of civil defense, for a period of no more
than five (5) working days.
d. Other authorized duties in connection with State business.
e. An employee who has been employed in State service for six (6) months or more, and
--
of which exceeds fifteen (15) calendar days.
g. Leave with pay for job interviewing and testing for employment opportunities in state
government may be arranged by the Appointing Authority, who will determine the amount of time that
is appropriate.
ARTICLE 37 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY
Section 1 . Applying for leave of absence without pay will be in writing and submitted to the immediate
supervisor.
Section 2. In instances where the work of an Agency shall not be genuinely handicapped by the temporary
absence of an employee, the employee shall be granted a leave of absence without pay or educational leave without pay.
Section 3. Time spent on leave without pay in excess of thirty (30) consecutive days shall not be
considered as service in determining the employee's eligibility date for a salary increase unless such time has been spent on leave resulting from job-incurred disability.
Section 4. Military Leave. An employee who has received official orders from any Reserve component of the armed
forces of the United States shall be given such military leave without pay as may be provided by law.
40
ARTICLE 38 - PRE-RETIREMENT COUNSELING LEAVE
At any time after reaching forty-five (45) years of age and within five (5) years of the employee's chosen retirement date, each employee shall be granted up to three and one-half (3-1/2) days leave with pay to pursue bona fide pre-retirement counseling programs. Employees shall request the use of leave provided in this Article at least seven (7) days prior to the intended date of use.
Authorization for the use of pre-retirement counseling leave shall not be withheld unless the Agency determines that the use of such leave shall handicap the efficiency of the employee's work unit.
When the dates requested for pre-retirement leave cannot be granted for the above reason, the Agency shall offer the employee a choice from three (3) other sets of dates. The leave herein discussed may be used to investigate and assemble the employee's retirement program, including PERS, Social Security, insurance and other retirement income.
ARTICLE 39 - ELECTION DAYS
On recognized federal and State election days, the work will be arranged to allow the employees the opportunity to vote.
ARTICLE 40 - PROMOTIONS/ADVANCEMENT
Section 1 . The Agency desires to give all the bargaining unit employees an opportunity to fill bargaining
unit vacancies. To that end, the Agency intends to insure, subject to the requirements of Affirmative Action and Equal Employment Opportunity, that all bargaining unit employees may apply and be considered for all vacancies in the bargaining units covered by the terms of this Agreement and for which, in the judgment of the Agency, the employee is qualified. The Agency will determine the method of selection and determine the individuals to fill a vacancy.
Section 2. The employee is responsible for preparation for advancement and qualification for promotion
within the Agency.
Section 3. Employees will be notified of all the bargaining unit vacancies covered by the terms of this
Agreement, which the Agency intends to fill by posting a list of such vacancies on designated bulletin boards as agreed to by the Agency and the Union at each of the Agencies/Institutions. This posting will be for a minimum of five (5) days in order to give employees an opportunity to apply for the vacant positions.
ARTICLE 41 - TRIAL SERVICE
Section 1 . Each employee appointed to a position in the bargaining unit by initial appointment to the
Agency or promotion shall, with each appointment, serve a trial service period. Trial service may be extended only in instances where a trial service employee has been on cumulative leave without pay for fifteen (15) days or more. Time spent on donated hardship leave shall not count toward completion of trial service. The trial service date will be adjusted only by the number of days the employee was on such leave, except as modified under Section 2 of this Article.
Section 2. Trial Service Time.
41
The trial service period is recognized as an extension of the selection process and is the prescribed time immediately following appointment.
a. Security for DOC. Trial service shall not exceed twelve (12) full calendar months for initial appointment of security employees to the Department of Corrections.
b. Promotional Trial Service. Trial service shall not exceed six (6) full calendar months for promotion with the Department of Corrections.
Section 3. Initial trial service employees may be removed from service when, in the judgment of the
Agency, the employee does not demonstrate the competence and/or fitness for the position. Such removals under this Article are not subject to appeal or the grievance procedure.
Section 4. An employee on trial service, other than initial trial service, who is removed shall be reinstated
to the employee's former position providing the employee was a regular employee in another position in an AFSCME bargaining unit immediately prior to the appointment, and provided the employee has not been charged under ORS 240.555.
ARTICLE 42 - TRAINING/EDUCATION
Section 1 . Training. The Agency will pay incurred tuition/registration and allowable travel, per diem, and salary when
the Agency directs employees to attend training. Employees may request agency-sponsored training and will be considered based on job and workload needs and on funding. Available training and educational opportunities will be posted on employee bulletin boards and maintained current.
Section 2. Developmental Opportunities. The Agency may provide developmental assignments and job rotation assignments by written
agreement with the Union and employees who volunteer. Employees volunteering for these assignments retain their permanent position classifications, remain on the Agency payroll, retain the representation (AFSCME) status of their permanent positions while on the assignment, and return to their permanent positions on completion of the assignment. Employees participating in developmental and job rotation assignments will continue to receive compensation at the rate of their permanent position and shall continue to accrue rights and benefits related to their permanent position.
Section 3. Employees may be granted time off with pay to take job-related educational courses or training
sessions.
ARTICLE 43 - JOB SHARING
Section 1 . "Job sharing position" means a full-time position in the classified service that may be held by
more than one (1) individual on a shared time basis whereby the individuals holding the position work less than full-time.
Section 2. Job sharing is a voluntary program. Any employee who wishes to participate in job sharing may
submit a written request to the Functional Unit Manager to be considered for job share positions. The Functional Unit Manager shall determine if job sharing is appropriate for a specific position and will recruit and select employees for job share positions. Where the Functional Unit Manager determines
42
job sharing is appropriate, the management agrees to provide written notification to all job share applicants of available job share positions in their office in the Agency.
Section 3. Job share employees shall accrue vacation leave, sick leave and holiday pay based on a pro
rate of hours worked in a month during which the employee has worked thirty-two (32) hours or more. Individual salary review dates will be established for job share employees.
Section 4. Job sharing employees shall be entitled to share the full Agency paid insurance benefits for one
(1) full-time position based on a pro rate of regular hours scheduled per week or per month whatever is appropriate. In any event, the Agency contribution for insurance benefits in a job share position is limited to the amount authorized for one (1) full-time employee. Each job share employee shall have the right to pay the difference between the Agency paid insurance benefits and the full premium amount through payroll deduction.
Section 5. For purpose of layoff, individuals filling a job share position which totals a full-time equivalent
shall be considered as part-time employees at the time the position has been affected by a layoff.
Section 6. If a vacancy exists and if the Functional Unit Manager determines that job sharing is not
appropriate for the position or if the Functional Unit Manager is unable to recruit qualified employees for the job share position, the remaining employee shall have the right to assume the position on a full-time basis. Upon approval of the Functional Unit Manager, the remaining employee may elect to transfer to a vacant part-time position in the same classification or to voluntarily demote. If the above conditions are not available or acceptable, the employee agrees to resign.
ARTICLE 44 - LAYOFF PROCEDURE
Section 1 . A layoff is defined as a separation from service for involuntary reasons not reflecting discredit
on an employee. An employee shall be given written notice of a pending layoff at least fifteen (15) days before the effective date stating the reason for the layoff.
Section 2. Employees shall be laid off and service credits calculated within the following mutually exclusive
categories: a. Full-time, b. Part-time (including job share).
Section 3. Layoff shall be by classification as defined in Section 11. The classification, geographic area,
and functional unit to be affected by any particular layoff shall be identified by the Agency at the time the layoff is declared. Order of layoff within the designated classification, functional unit, and geographic area shall be determined by the lowest service credit.
It is understood that when an employee who is to be laid off possesses knowledge, skill, or ability, the loss of which in the judgment of the Agency would seriously impact operations, the Agency may hold that employee in active status, while laying off the next employee in service credit order in the employee's stead. When it is necessary to hold an employee, who would otherwise be laid off, the Agency will document the need and such documentation shall be accessible to the Union for its review. Any dispute in this regard may be taken up as a grievance by the Union.
If an employee is underfilling a position, the employee will be considered in the higher classification for the purposes of this Article. If it is found that two (2) or more employees in the
43
Agency in which the layoff is to be made have equal service credits, the order of layoff shall be in inverse order of the greatest length of continuous State service. If ties between employees still exist, the order of layoff shall be determined by the Appointing Authority in such a manner as to conserve for the State the services of the most qualified employees.
Section 4. Service Credit. Seniority is defined as total length of continuous Agency service. One (1) point shall be allowed
for each full month of unbroken service. An employee's seniority shall be computed from the date of the employee's employment by the Agency in any capacity within the Division/Department, except that a new employee shall be on trial service for the appropriate period. A new employee shall be placed on the seniority list and given seniority ratings as of the first day the employee was hired by the Agency.
Seniority shall be forfeited if an employee has a break in service from the Agency of more than one hundred eighty (180) calendar days, other than layoff, or fails to respond within five (5) consecutive work days after receiving notice by registered letter mailed to the last address on the Agency's records, unless prevented from responding by conditions beyond the employee's control. A break in service is a separation or interruption of employment without pay of more than one hundred eighty (180) calendar days.
Seniority lists shall be prepared by the Agency, during January, updated periodically, and posted on bulletin boards in the Agency. Time with the Board of Parole and the Department of Corrections shall be interchangeable. Time spent by former employees of the EOH&TC who were employed at that facility and transferred to EOCI within six (6) months of EOH&TC's closure, shall count toward the calculation of Department of Corrections seniority in that geographic area only.
Section 5. Options in Lieu of Layoff. Any employee who is given notice of layoff may file a written request to exercise an option in
lieu of layoff with the Appointing Authority within five (5) work days of receipt of such notice. The employee's options shall be as follows:
a. Any employee notified of layoff may opt to displace the least service credit person in the geographic area in the same classification provided the employee can perform the specific requirements of the position within approximately two (2) weeks.
b. Any employee notified of layoff may elect to demote within the functional unit to a lower classification for which the employee is qualified provided the employee can perform the requirements of the position within approximately two (2) weeks, if a position exists which is not protected from layoff and where the incumbent has the least seniority.
c. If no such option exists within the functional unit, the employee may elect to displace the least senior undesignated person in the geographic area in a lower classification for which the employee is qualified, provided the employee can perform the requirements of the position within approximately two (2) weeks.
Section 6. The name of a demoting employee shall then be placed on the appropriate layoff list for the
class the employee demoted from. Any employee demoted in lieu of layoff may request at that time and shall be paid for all accrued compensatory time at the rate being earned prior to demotion in lieu of layoff.
Section 7. If an employee's selection in Section 6 results requires moving, moving expenses shall be
assumed by the employee.
Section 8. Layoff List. A layoff list shall be a list of employees by classification and geographic area who are laid off
from the Agency. Such lists are maintained in inverse order of layoff for the geographic area. Recall shall be from the list, one (1) name at a time, to the vacancy in the classification and within the
44
geographic area from which the employee was laid off provided the employee can perform the specific requirements of the position within approximately two (2) weeks. No new employees may be hired within that geographic area until all employees on the layoff list in that class have been offered reemployment. Names shall be maintained on the appropriate layoff list(s) for two (2) years from the effective date of layoff.
Section 9. Unclassified, exempt and management service employees shall be restored into classified
service pursuant to ORS 240.570. If a reduction in force is required in connection with this return it will be accomplished through this Article. Seniority for the purposes of restoration shall be all time served in classified service. For any subsequent reductions in force following this restoration, Section 4 seniority will apply. There shall be no cross-bumping between management service and the bargaining unit.
Section 10. If the Agency is willing to allow cross bumping between unions, discussion with affected union
representatives will be initiated. If the parties agree, cross bumping will be allowed both ways.
Section 11. Geographic Area and Functional Unit. For the purposes of this Article the two (2) geographic areas are defined as the area west of
Cascade Mountain Range and the area east of the Cascade Mountain Range. Functional unit is defined as: Each institution - Eastern Oregon Correctional Institution (EOCI), Oregon Women's Correctional Center (OWCC), Santiam Correctional Institution (SCI), Shutter Creek Correctional Institution (SCCI), Snake River Correctional Institution (SRCI), Columbia River Correctional Institution (CRCI), Powder River Correctional Facility (PRCF), Oregon Corrections Intake Center (OCIC), Coffee Creek Correctional Facility, Transportation East and Transportation West and Two Rivers Correctional Institution (TRCI).
Section 12. Temporary Interruption of Employment. When work is not available due to a temporary situation beyond the Agency's control,
employees in the affected work unit may have their employment temporarily interrupted for up to fifteen (15) calendar days without this being considered a formal layoff under this Article. Temporary workload fluctuations will not be considered as justification for invoking this provision.
Should such a temporary interruption of employment occur, employees so affected will be allowed to use any form of accrued paid leave including vacation, compensatory time off, or personal leave or will be placed on leave without pay where the affected employee(s) have insufficient compensatory time to cover the period of interruption.
If limited work is available within the affected work unit, it will be offered to employees by seniority, within the affected classifications, during the period of the temporary interruption provided that if current seniority scores are available, those scores shall be utilized and if special skills are needed, this section shall not apply.
Section 13. The parties agree to establish a working committee of three (3) Union represented employees
and three (3) Agency managers to review the strengths and weaknesses of the current layoff procedure. The committee shall complete its work by June 30, 2006.
ARTICLE 45 - REVIEW OF CLASSIFICATION SERIES
Section 1 . It is agreed and understood that procedures for establishing new proposed classifications and
for material revision of existing classifications will provide reasonable opportunity for review and input by the Union prior to implementation.
45
Section 2. The parties shall negotiate the salary range for new and materially revised classifications.
Negotiations for the establishment of new salary ranges for such new or revised classification shall commence no later than thirty (30) days after the initial receipt by the Union of the new or revised class specifications.
Section 3. Implementation of a salary adjustment or rate change agreed upon in the salary negotiations
shall be effective the first of the month following legislative approval of the negotiated salary, unless otherwise specified in the negotiated agreement.
Section 4. The Union may recommend classification studies to be conducted by the Department of
Administrative Services, Human Resources Services Division including the reasons for the need for such studies.
ARTICLE 46 - RECLASSIFICATION PROCEDURE
The parties shall use the following procedure to process reclassification requests.
Section 1 .
The Agency shall furnish Class Specifications at the request of the Union or employee.
Section 2. The employee will submit a completed official Position Description form and written explanation
for a proposed reclassification request to the Agency Personnel Officer and a copy mailed to the Union.
Section 3. The Agency shall conduct a classification audit and review the merits of the request. Within
thirty (30) days after receipt of reclassification request the Agency shall notify the Union of its decision. The Union shall have an opportunity, before the thirty (30) days decision date, to meet with the Agency to present arguments and recommendations where there are objections to the proposed reclassification. The parties may extend the time limits by mutual, written agreement in those instances where the review process or other extenuating circumstances require additional time for analysis.
Section 4. Any employee who is involuntarily reclassified or any employee whose reclassification request
is denied may take the matter up as a grievance under Article 5, Grievance and Arbitration, of this Agreement.
Section 5. Should the duties of the position support the proposed reclassification, the Agency shall make
the determination whether to seek legislative approval for reclassification or remove the duties. If a reclassification request, as approved, does not receive the necessary legislative approval required by ORS 291.371, the Agency shall immediately change the duties of the employee to conform to the prior classification.
Section 6. The effective date of a reclassification implemented under this Article shall be the first of the
month following the month in which the reclassification request was received by the Agency.
Section 7. 46
Any incumbent who has successfully performed for three (3) months the duties of the position reclassified shall be continued in the position.
Section 8. Any employee reclassified downward will move into the new range at the step that is nearest
the employee's current rate. The employee's anniversary date shall remain the same. If the employee's rate is above the highest step in the lower range, the employee shall receive no reduction in pay. Similarly, such employee shall not receive future salary adjustments until such time as the new range encompasses the employee's salary. At this time, the employee shall have a salary adjustment to the nearest step in the range. The employee shall also be placed on the Layoff List for the previously-held classification.
Section 9. Reclassification Upward. Any employee reclassified upward shall move into the new range at the closest step that is
higher than the employee's current rate. Anniversary date for future step increases shall be established as the first of the month following the date the employee's request was received.
ARTICLE 47 - EMPLOYEE RIGHTS
Section 1 . Off duty activities of employees will not subject them to disciplinary action by the Agency unless
such activities are illegal or a conflict of interest with the employees' duties or the mission of the Agency.
Employees who are the subject of a formal Agency complaint or investigation shall be assured
the following rights:
a. The employee shall not be deprived of any of the employee's constitutional or civil rights
guaranteed by the federal and State Constitutions and Laws.
b. The employee shall be informed of the nature of the complaint or charges before the
employee is required to respond to questions concerning the complaint or charges.
Such interview shall normally occur during employee paid time.
If the employee is required to respond to a formal complaint or charge, the employee
--
investigation within fourteen (14) days after the completion of the investigation.
Section 1 . Persons may be hired for special studies or projects of uncertain or limited duration which are
subject to the continuation of a grant, contract, award, or legislative funding for a specific project. Such appointments shall be for a stated period not exceeding two (2) years, except extended by legislative or Emergency Board action. Such appointment shall expire upon termination of the special study or projects.
Section 2. a. No newly hired person on a limited duration appointment shall be entitled to rights under
the layoff procedure and shall be so notified. b. A person appointed from AFSCME regular status within the bargaining unit to a limited
duration appointment shall be entitled to rights under the layoff procedure within their Agency.
Section 3. A person accepting such appointment shall be notified of the conditions of the appointment and
acknowledge in writing that they accept that appointment under these conditions. Such notification shall include the following:
a. That the appointment is of limited duration. b. That the appointment may cease at any time. c. That persons who accept a limited duration appointment who were formerly classified
State employees, from AFSCME, within the bargaining unit, are entitled to rights under the layoff procedure starting from the prior class within the Agency. d. That in all other respects, limited duration appointees have all rights and privileges of other classified employees including but not limited to wages, benefits, and Union representation under this Agreement.
An employee shall be provided with a copy of any report, correspondence or document of an adverse nature entered into the employee's agency personnel file. An employee's signature on any adverse report, correspondence or document shall not be construed to mean that the employee agrees with the content.
Section 2. Any agency file maintained by the Employer regarding an employee may be inspected by the
employee, or any other employee with the written permission of the affected employee. No material of an adverse nature may be used against an employee unless the employee has viewed and signed the material or where the employee has refused to sign, the material has been annotated or witnessed that the employee refused to sign.
Section 3. If any material reflecting critically or adversely on an employee is proven to be materially
incorrect, it shall be removed from the personnel file. Any reports, correspondence or documents of an adverse nature, three (3) years after the date they were written, may not be used against the employee, provided no incident of a similar nature occurred in the intervening time.
Section 1 . The principles of progressive discipline shall be used when appropriate. No employee who has completed the initial trial service period shall be disciplined or dismissed
without just cause.
Section 2. a. Dismissal Appeals. The dismissal (and pre-dismissal suspension without pay) of a
regular status employee may be appealed by the Union directly to the Labor Relations Unit for binding arbitration. The appeal must state the reasons for the appeal and be submitted to the Labor Relations Unit, in writing, within ten (10) calendar days from the effective date of the dismissal.
b. Reduction, Suspension and Demotion Appeals. An employee reduced in pay, demoted, or suspended shall receive written notice of the discipline with the specific charges and facts supporting the discipline.
Section 3. In the event of reduction in pay, dismissal, suspension, demotion, or written reprimand, a
written statement shall be given to the employee at the time action is taken and a copy sent to the Local Union Council Representative within seven (7) days of issuance to the employee. In the event it is necessary to immediately remove the employee from the premises, the written statement shall be provided within forty-eight (48) hours of the removal. The written statement shall include the complaint against the employee and the facts upon which the Agency relies in support of the complaint.
Section 4. A pre-dismissal investigation shall be conducted with regard to a regular status employee
against whom a charge is presented which potentially justifies dismissal. The Appointing Authority or designee shall provide notification to such an employee and to the Union Business Agent and Chief Steward of the following: that potential cause for employee's dismissal has arisen; the known complaints, facts, and charges; and that the employee will be afforded the opportunity to refute such charges or present mitigating circumstances at an informal meeting at a time and date set forth in the notice. Such notification shall include a copy of this Article. The employee may be suspended in accordance with current practice or be allowed to continue work during the period of investigation. The Appointing Authority will normally issue a final decision within twenty-one (21) calendar days after the meeting, or will notify the employee and the Union within that time when the decision can be expected. Extensions requested by the employee or the Union shall not count against the twenty-one (21) days.
Section 5. Upon the request of any employee who is called to an investigatory meeting or a meeting which
may result in discipline being imposed upon the employee, the employee shall be entitled to the presence of a Union Representative. Should an employee be demoted or discharged by the Agency, a Union Representative will be made aware of the action and allowed to be present prior to the Agency talking to the employee. Should the employee not desire Union representation at the meeting, the employee may request the Union Representative leave prior to the start of the meeting.
Section 6. A Union Representative shall have the right to discuss with appropriate management staff any
disciplinary action imposed, at the affected employee's written request, with or without the employee's presence.
Section 1 . Grievances are defined as acts, omissions, applications or interpretations alleged to be
violations of the terms and conditions of this Agreement. Employees shall meet with the immediate supervisor informally. If such problems cannot be resolved, the employee may avail themselves of the following procedure. A grievance shall not be expanded upon after the grievance has been filed with the Agency Head.
Section 2. Disputes arising from reduction in pay, dismissal, suspension or demotion other than initial trial
service employees are subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure pursuant to the expedited procedures described in Article 50, Discipline and Discharge.
Appeal of a written reprimand, refusal/withholding of merit step increase and any other form of discipline other than dismissal, reduction, suspension and demotion shall be in accordance with this Article.
Step 1 . Employee, with or without Union representation will contact their immediate supervisor to meet and discuss alleged contract violations prior to filing a written grievance at Step 2. Step 2. If the issue is unresolved, the Union will submit a written grievance containing the date of occurrence, the act or omission that created the grievance, the Section violated, and the remedy desired within thirty (30) days of the alleged occurrence. Where the issue is not settled at Step 1 , the Union shall submit the grievance to the designated appointing authority within thirty (30) days of the alleged occurrence. The designated appointing authority's response shall be due in writing within twenty-one (21) calendar days of receipt of the grievance. Step 3. If the grievance is not resolved at Step 2, the Union may request review of the grievance by the DOC Assistant Administrator for Human Resources within fifteen (15) days after receiving the response from Step 2. A response from the Assistant Administrator or designee shall be given within twenty-one (21) calendar days of the Union's appeal to step 3, unless otherwise agreed to in writing. Step 4. If the grievance is not resolved by the Agency, the Union shall notify the Labor Relations Unit of the Department of Administrative Services within fifteen (15) calendar days of receipt of the designated appointing authority's response that such response is not acceptable. A meeting will be held between the parties to mutually share information about the grievance. The parties shall fully disclose their respective positions and all supporting evidence. All potential resolutions shall be discussed in this meeting and shall be non-prejudicial to the parties if arbitrations occur. The meeting shall occur within fifteen (15) days of the Union's notice, unless otherwise agreed to in writing. Step 4. If the grievance is not resolved at the Labor Relations Unit within fifteen (15) days of the Step 3 notice or as otherwise mutually agreed to in writing, the Union shall notify the Department of Administrative Services that it desires arbitration of the grievance. Step 5. Selection of an Arbitrator.
1. The Union will request from the Employment Relations Board, the names of five (5) qualified arbitrators at the time it notifies the Department of Administrative Services of its intent to arbitrate.
2. Within thirty (30) days of filing at Step 4, the Union and the Labor Relations Unit will select an arbitrator by alternately striking names with the moving party striking first, from the Employment Relations Board list, one (1) name at a time until only one (1) name remains on the list. The name remaining on the list shall be accepted by the parties as the arbitrator, and arbitration hearings shall commence at such time and place mutually agreed to by the parties.
Section 3. The parties agree that the decision or award of the arbitrator shall be final and binding on each
of the parties and that they will abide thereby. The parties do not waive any right of review provided by law. The arbitrator shall have no authority to add to or subtract from or change any of the terms of the Agreement, except for salaries on new classifications. The arbitrator's award shall be due to the parties within thirty (30) days of the close of the hearing.
Section 4. The arbitrator's fees and expenses shall be paid by the losing party. If, in the opinion of the
arbitrator, neither party can be considered the losing party, then such expenses shall be borne exclusively by the party requiring the service or item for which payment is to be made.
Section 5. Grievances shall be reduced to writing and submitted on the form identified as AFSCME State
of Grievance Form.
Section 6. Time limits specified in this procedure must be observed unless either party requests a specific
extension of time which, if agreed to, shall be stipulated in writing and shall become part of the
50
grievance record. If management fails to issue a response within the time limits set forth in this Article, the grievance may be advanced to the next step of the grievance procedure.
Section 1 . Transfers. An involuntary transfer of an employee out of the functional unit occasioned by a reduction in
force in that unit shall be done in inverse order of bargaining unit seniority in that classification. In other instances, where, for the good of the service, the employee needs to be transferred,
through no fault of the employee, to another institution, the employee shall be transferred to another AFSCME bargaining unit, if possible.
Section 2. Withdrawal of Resignation. An employee who has given notice of resignation has up to twenty-four (24) clock hours during
which to rescind the resignation. Beyond the twenty-four (24)-hour period, the resignation may be withdrawn only with the
approval of the Appointing Authority.
Section 1 . Any employee, during the performance of the employee's work, who is seized and detained by
force or threat, shall be allowed reasonable time off immediately after the incident to recover from any physical or psychological disability caused by the action. Any period of time beyond one (1) day necessary for purposes of readjustment shall be determined by the employee's physician or psychiatrist subject to verification by a physician or psychiatrist of the Agency's choice.
Section 2. Such leave shall be charged against any accumulated time the employee has earned; however,
where an employee is receiving compensation through Workers' Compensation or other victim compensation relief, such charges will be on a pro rata basis not to exceed the employee's regular salary (except staff assaults as defined in Article 33, Section 8).
Section 3. Where an employee who has established a good work record develops improper work habits or
excessive absenteeism, which may be evidence of job stress, the Agency shall attempt to establish the reasons behind the employee's poor work habits and shall counsel with the employee in an attempt to aid the employee in developing a program to begin improving those habits. Any admissions of the employee of wrong doing, which are brought out during such counseling sessions, shall not later be used against the employee in any subsequent disciplinary procedure unless otherwise proven. The Agency shall post and keep current all available educational programs, seminars, and workshops relating to stress management.
--
LETTER OF AGREEMENT - Article 13 Part-time Employee Health Insurance
Subsidy
This Agreement is between the State of Oregon, acting through its Department of Administrative Services (Employer) and AFSCME Council 75 (Union).
The parties agree to the following:
The Employer will continue to pay the current part-time subsidy for eligible part-time employees who participate in the part-time plan through December 31, 2007. For Plan Year 2005 the subsidy will be continued as the amount currently in effect. For 2006 and 2007, the subsidy will be paid at an amount so that employees will continue to pay the same out of pocket premium costs that were in effect for Plan Year 2005. If an employee changes from one tier to another or changes plans pursuant to PEBB rules, his or her out of pocket premium costs will be adjusted to reflect the Plan Year 2005 out of pocket premium costs for his or her new tier.
This Agreement automatically sunsets June 30, 2007.
FOR THE EMPLOYER
Date:
FOR THE UNION:
54
LETTER OF AGREEMENT - Article 13 Additional Step Increase
1. Eligible employees under this Agreement are employees who are on step one (1) through seven (7) of the pay range of their classification and: a) have been continuously employed since January 1 , 2004, or, b) are seasonal employees employed in calendar year 2003 and recalled pursuant to the Agreement for subsequent seasons. Employees shall receive steps on their salary eligibility date pursuant to Article 14 and one (1) additional step as follows:
a. An employee with a salary eligibility date (SED) between July 1 , 2006 and January 31, 2007, shall receive an additional one (1) step increase effective February 1 , 2007.
b. An employee with a salary eligibility date (SED) between February 1 , 2007 and June 30, 2007 shall receive an additional step increase effective on their SED.
2. All other employees will receive step increases pursuant to Article 14 of the Agreement.
3. This Agreement shall automatically sunset June 30, 2007.
LETTER OF AGREEMENT - Article 14 Salary Administration
This Agreement is between the State of Oregon acting through its Department of Administrative Services (Employer), on behalf of the Department of Corrections (Agency), and American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Security Employees (Union) and is binding upon the Employer, Agency and Union and all designated representatives.
This Agreement supersedes all provisions in the collective bargaining agreement pertaining to step advancement upon the affected employees' salary eligibility dates (SED).
Employees who have steps remaining in their classification for purposes of step advancements shall not receive these step increases for a total of twenty-four (24) months following the effective date of the interest arbitration award.
This Agreement does not affect the initial increase upon promotion and reclassification upward but does affect any subsequent step advancement in the classifications.
Binary file (standard input) matches
