=== HEALTHCARE EXTRACTION: CBA_14 ===
Source: C:/Users/zachary.parolin/INETInequality Dropbox/INET Inequality Team/Projects/LLMs & Inequality/1_CBAs/Cornell Archive/Cornell-DoL/K830313_08_07combined.pdf
Total document lines: 3566
Extracted healthcare lines: 529
===========================================

The parties honor diversity, respect and civility among students, parents, citizens and staff and encourage innovation, choice, appropriate risktaking and adaptation to changing conditions.

The success of an exceptional educational program depends upon a qualified staff dedicated to high standards and professional development. The District and the Association commit to enhancing the character of the teaching profession in a climate which values employees, promotes positive morale and demonstrates integrity, fairness and trust. The partnership between the District and the Association supports processes that include open communication, consensus-building and active involvement. The District and the Association believe that the best decisions are made in an environment that includes mutual trust, respect, understanding, cooperation and support.
The Jefferson County Public Schools and the Jefferson County Education Association believe that this Master Agreement reflects these beliefs and upholding it provides the basis for a quality education for the students of Jefferson County. Therefore, the parties agree this Preamble to be the vision and framework on which the articles contained in this Agreement are built.
Jefferson County Public Schools Jefferson County, Colorado
s5?
Jefte Norms
http://jeffcoweb.jeffco.kl2.co.us/emprelations/jcea/preamble.html
2/5/04
Jeffco Schools: JCEA Negotiated Agreement Jeffco Schools / JCEA Negotiated Agreement: 2003
Page 1 of 1
ARTICLE l
Definitions
1-1 The term "teacher" as used in this Agreement shall mean all full-time, non-administrative personnel, teachers in residence, alternative licensure teachers and part-time teachers, as defined in Section 1-10, licensed by the Colorado State Department of Education. The term "teacher" shall not include persons who teach less than part-time, substitute teachers, or educational assistants.
1-2 The term "Board" as used in this Agreement shall mean the Jefferson County School District R-l School Board.
1-3 The term "Association" as used in this Agreement shall mean the Jefferson County Education Association.
1-4 The term "School District" or "District" as used in this Agreement shall mean the Jefferson County School District R-l in the State of Colorado.
1-5 The term "Superintendent" as used in this Agreement shall mean the Superintendent of Jefferson County School Dis-trict R-l in the State of Colorado.
1-6 The term "workweek", unless specified otherwise in other sections of the Agreement, shall be a period of time not to exceed forty (40) hours of teaching and school-related duties falling from Monday through Friday each week.
1-7 The term "workday", unless specified otherwise in other sections of this Agreement, shall be defined as that continuous period of time each day the teacher is assigned teaching and school-related duties.
1-8 The term "instructional day" as used in this Agreement shall mean that period of time a teacher is assigned teaching duties, including planning time.
1-9 Continuous service as used in this Agreement shall mean the length of service as a full-time contracted teacher of the District and shall be computed from the teacher's first year of employment, except for the teacher who is employed on a full-time basis for less than a full school year during his/her first year of employment. Said teacher shall receive credit for the period of time during the first year he/she worked, commencing on the first day he/she provided service to the District on a full-time contracted basis. Time spent on sabbatical leaves shall be credited toward continuous service. Continuous service shall not be interrupted by other approved leaves of absence, resignation or termination, followed by rehiring within thirty-nine (39) months. However, such period of time during such leaves of absence or after termination or resignation and prior to rehiring shall not be credited as continuous service.
1-10 The term "part-time teacher" as used in this Agreement shall mean all non-administrative personnel, licensed by the Colorado State Department of Education, who teach half or more, but less than all, of a workday for ninety (90) or more days, or one semester or equivalent time as determined by the annual school calendar; or who teach full-time ninety (90) or more days, or one semester or equivalent time, but less than one hundred eighty-eight (188) days during a school year.
1-11 The term "substitute teacher" as used in this Agreement shall mean a teacher who normally performs services as an employee of a school district for four hours or more during each regular school day, but works on one continuous assignment for a total of less than ninety regular school days, or one semester or equivalent time as determined by the annual school year calendar of the District in which the teacher is employed during an academic year. "Substitute teacher" also means an itinerant teacher who normally performs services as an employee of a school district for four hours or more during each regular school day, but works on two or more assignments for a total of less than one hundred ten (110) regular school days during an academic year.
Jeffso^r Schools Home
http://jeffcoweb.jeffco.kl2.co.us/emprelations/jcea/article_l.html
Jeffco Schools: JCEA Negotiated Agreement
ARTICLE 2
--
effect until mid-night, August 31, 2007 with the exception of compensation items (salary and cost of living allowance; steps and
levels; flex dollars; insurance benefits; additional performance pay; department chairs; additional coverage pay; outdoor lab pay;
induction program pay; District contribution to PERA matching; sick leave payout when leaving the District and supplemental
retirement) which will be negotiated for the second, third and fourth year of the Agreement. In addition, each party to this
Agreement shall have the option to submit two (2) items of their choice for negotiation in 2004, 2005 and 2006. Additional items
may be negotiated only by mutual agreement of both parties. '
*
Written requests for such negotiations shall be submitted by March 1, 2004, 2005 and 2006, and negotiations shall commence by March 15 unless the parties mutually agree to change the dates.
5-3 Conducting Negotiations
5-3-1 Negotiations mutually agreed upon will be con-ducted at times and places mutually agreeable to the negotiators named by each party, provided that the first meeting shall be held on or about the 1st day of March. The parties may extend the aforementioned date by mutual consent. The parties shall attempt to reach agreement by August 31.. It shall be the duty of both parties to negotiate in a timely fashion and in good faith.
5-3-2 Negotiation meetings should be scheduled at times which interfere the least with school schedules. However, if the mutually agreed upon time is during the course of a school day, the members of the teams shall be released from school duties without loss of pay to attend such meetings.
5-3-3 During negotiations, the Board and the Associa-tion, through their representatives, will present relevant data, exchange points of view, and make proposals and counterproposals. Upon request of either party, the other will make available for inspection its records and data pertinent to the subject of negotiations.
5-3-4 Either party may, if it so desires, utilize the services of outside consultants and may call upon professional and lay representatives to assist in the negotiations.
5-3-5 Negotiations shall be conducted in open sessions, unless both parties agree to the con-trary.
5-4 Adopting Agreements
5-4-1 Tentative agreements reached as a result of such negotiations will be reduced to writing and pre-sented by the Association to its membership within thirty (30) school days after tentative agree-ment has been reached. The Association shall have twenty (20) school days from the date that the tentative agreement has been presented to its membership in which to advise the Board in writing of the acceptance or non-acceptance of said tentative agreement. Absence of a written reply within this allotted time shall constitute ratification. Within thirty (30) school days following ratification, the Agreement shall be presented to the Board for its tentative approval. After the Agreement is adopted by the Board, the final Agreement will be signed by the Board and the Association.
--
5-5-1-2 From among the persons who have been approved on both lists, and in accord-ance with the designated order of mutual preference, the American Arbi-tration Association shall invite the acceptance of a mediator/fact-finder.
5-5-1-3 If the parties fail to agree upon any of the persons named, or if those named decline or are unable to act, or if for any other reason an appointment cannot be made from such list of names, the American Arbitration Asso-ciation shall appoint a mediator/fact-finder from its other members without submitting additional lists.
5-6 Conducting Mediation/Fact-finding
5-6-1 The mediator/fact-finder will have the authority to hold hearings, make procedural rules, and set the dates and times for meetings, which will be conducted in closed sessions.
5-6-2 The mediator/fact-finder will meet with the Dis-trict and the Association, through their repre-sentatives, either separately or together, to mediate the disputes.
5-6-3 To the extent that a tentative agreement is reached as a result of such mediation, the pro-cedures provided in Sections 5-61 and 5-6-2 shall apply. If mediation fails in whole or in part, the mediator shall report the issues which remain in dispute to the respective parties.
5-6-4 If mediation described in Section 5-6 has failed to bring about agreement on all issues, the mediator/fact-finder shall proceed with fact-finding, unless either the District's repre-sentatives or the Association's representatives object to continuing with the services of the mediator/fact-finder. If either party objects, another fact-finder shall be selected as out-lined in Section 5-5.
5-6-5 Within five (5) school days after receiving the fact-finding report of the mediator/fact-finder or the fact-finder, the District and the Association, through their representatives, will meet to discuss the report. Public release of the report may be made any time after the conclusion of such meeting. Thereafter, such report shall be declared a public document.
5-6-6 The respective parties shall take official action on the report of the mediator/fact-finder or the fact-finder no later than thirty (30) school days after the meeting described in Section 5-6-5 above.
5-6-7 To the extent that tentative agreement is reached on the issues in dispute as a result of such mediation/fact-finding, the procedures provided in Sections 5-4-1 and 5-4-2 shall apply.
5-6-8 The costs for the services of the mediator/fact-finder, or fact-finder, including per diem expenses, if any, and actual and necessary travel expenses, shall be shared equally by the Board and the Association.
5-6-9 Either party may request that an official stenographic record of all or part of the testimony taken at the fact-finding hearings be made, and a copy of any transcript shall be provided to the fact-finder. The party requesting a stenographic record shall pay the costs thereof, except that if the other party shall request a copy of any transcript, it shall share equally the entire cost of making the stenographic record.
5-6-10 If there are unresolved issues after fact-finding, the Board will decide the unresolved issues.
"5?
--
8-1 Teachers shall be assigned within the scope of their teaching license or their major or minor fields of study, except where emergency dictates.
8-2 Teachers, other than ones newly-appointed, shall, if possible, be shown their proposed programs for the coming school year, including the schools to which they will be assigned, the grade levels and/or subjects they will teach, before the school year ends, or earlier; and any subsequent change in grade or level assignment in the elementary schools and in subject assignment in the secondary schools shall be made with full knowledge of the teacher.
8-3 Schedules of teachers who are assigned to more than one (1) school building will be arranged so that no teacher will be required to engage in an unreasonable amount of inter-school travel. Such teachers will be notified of any changes in their schedules as soon as practicable.
Jteflfeo>WlSehcK>fts Hnmm
--
E. Proportional sick leave. F. PERA.
G. Hospitalization and major medical insurance. Effective July 1, 2003, the District will contribute $479.00 per month for each eligible part-time contracted teacher who enrolls for coverage under the District's medical, dental, and vision insurance. Employees will purchase long-term disability, life insurance, and accidental death and dismemberment insurance from this contribution. Each year during negotiations the amount of the District's contribution will be negotiated as part of any successor agreement. Part-time contracted teachers will receive any remaining money as taxable income.
Part-time teachers who waive medical insurance will receive $160.00 per month and will purchase long-term disability, life insurance, and accidental death and dismemberment insurance. Part-time contracted teachers will receive any remaining money as taxable income. To waive medical, dental and/or vision coverage, proof of other coverage is needed.
H. Bereavement leave.
I. Jury duty and court subpoena leave.
J. Other fringe benefits as contained in this Agreement.
10-2-1 The following shall apply to those part-time non-contracted teachers assigned to teach three (3) hours and forty-five (45) minutes a workday for ninety (90) or more days, or one (1) semester or equivalent time, during a school year. In a school or work site which has a unique schedule, (i.e., block schedule, modular schedule, etc.) a half-time non-contracted teacher and principal may agree to an alternative schedule, provided the work load for said teacher shall not be greater than one half (1/2) of a full-time teacher's work load and the following shall apply.
A. Initial placement on the salary schedule shall be according to the provisions set forth in Article 44.
B. Salary shall be in proportion to their assignment.
C. One (1) increment shall be given for every two (2) consecutive years of service in the District.
D. Planning time during the workday shall be commensurate with the percentage of time taught.
E. Proportional sick leave.
F. PERA.
G. Hospitalization and major medical insurance. Effective July 1, 2003, the District will contribute $239.50 per month for each eligible part-time teacher who enrolls for coverage under the District's medical, dental, and vision insurance. Employees will purchase long-term disability, life insurance, and accidental death and dismemberment
http://jeffcoweb .jeffco.k 12.co.us/emprelations/jcea/article_ 10.html
Jeffco Schools: JCEA Negotiated Agreement
insurance from this contribution. Each year during negotiations the amount of the District's contribution will be negotiated as part of any successor agreement. Part-time contracted teachers will receive any remaining money as taxable income.
Page 2 of 2
Part-time teachers who waive medical insurance will receive $80.00 per month and will purchase long-term disability, life insurance, and accidental death and dismemberment insurance. Part-time contracted teachers will receive any remaining money as taxable income. To waive medical, dental and/or vision coverage, proof of other coverage is needed.
H. Option to participate in life insurance (District pays full cost).
I. Bereavement leave.
J. Jury duty and court subpoena leave.
K. Option to participate in other fringe bene-fit programs contained in this Agreement. L. Proportional lunch period.
10-3 During the time period on or about April 1 through June 30th, part-time District teachers may apply for advertised positions after involuntary transferees and leave returnees have been placed. District teachers (non-probationary) may apply for positions from February 1 through June 30.
10-4 Teachers who are employed on a full-time contract who have had previous part-time R-1 School District teaching experience as well as fulltime experience will be given credit for such experience on the salary schedule as outlined in 10-2-C and 10-2-1-C.
Ham*
--
E. The lay membership.
13-1-10 If the immediate supervisor's decision is being appealed, he/she will be given the opportunity to render a professional opinion on the appropriate-ness of the questioned or challenged mate-rial during the committee's review of the matter.
13-1-11 If a teacher is involved, he/she will be given the opportunity to render a professional opinion on the appropriateness of the expressed concern(s).
13-1 -12 A written recommendation of the reviewing -committee will be forwarded to the Superintend-ent for consideration.
13-1-13 Copies of the recommendation of the Superintend-ent will be forwarded to all interested person-nel.
13-1-14 If the complainant or teacher(s) involved is not satisfied with the recommendation of the Super-intendent, he/she has the privilege of going before the Board of Education, in accordance with District procedures.
13-1-15 If the same issue is challenged at a future date, the immediate supervisor and the chair-person of the reviewing committee will examine the previous decision in the light of additional points of view. If they find any significant difference in the new challenge, the committee may again review the issue; otherwise, the original decision will stand, and a copy will be sent to the complainant explaining that the issue has been previously evaluated.
http://jeffcowebjeffco.kl2xo.us/emprelations/jcea/article_13.html
Norms
http://jeffcoweb.jeffco.kl2.co.us/emprelations/jcea/article_13.html
ARTICLE 14
Page 1 of 2
Professional Behavior
14-1 Teachers are expected to comply with rules, regulations and directions adopted by the Board or its representa-tives, provided that the teacher may reasonably refuse to carry out an order which threatens physical safety or well-being.
14-2 No teacher shall be disciplined, reprimanded, reduced in rank or compensation or deprived of any professional advantage or employment without just cause. Any such discipline, reprimand, or reduction in rank, or compensation, or advantage, including adverse evaluation of teacher performance asserted by the Board or representative thereof, shall be subject to the professional grievance procedure as set forth herein. All such information forming the basis for disciplinary action will be made available to the teacher and the Association.
14-3 Any teacher who is asked by an administrator to attend a meeting which the teacher believes may result in disciplinary action, reprimand, reduction in rank or compensation, or deprivation of any professional advantage may have an Association representative, which does not include an outside attorney, attend the meeting with him/her. The teacher may have the meeting postponed for a reasonable length of time (normally 24 hours) while arranging for representation. Any teacher who finds himself/herself in a meeting with an administrator and believes the meeting may result in disciplinary action, reprimand, reduction in rank or compensation, or deprivation of any professional advantage, may halt/suspend the meeting for a reasonable length of time (normally 24 hours) while arranging for representation.
14-4 Immediately upon receipt of a request or recommendation for non-renewal of contract of a teacher, the Board shall notify the Association, and the non-renewal of contract shall be subject to the grievance process.
14-5 The Board shall encourage administrators or persons bring-ing charges against a teacher to cooperate with the Asso-ciation in its review of the case.
14-6 Each teacher shall prepare lesson plans in a manner that will assure quality and continuity of instruction. Such plans are subject to review by the building principal upon reasonable advance notice.
14-7 Teachers shall be responsible for the maintenance and com-pletion of records which relate to the teaching function, provided that time and/or assistance has been provided within the workday.
14-8 Teachers are expected to follow the approved District cur-riculum subject matter. Any significant deviation from approved course content or activity must be consistent with stated course objectives and State and District Standards.
14-9 Parental Complaints.
14-9-1 In cases of parental complaints about a teacher, every effort will be made to resolve the complaint with the involvement of the teacher, parent, and principal. The specifics of the complaint, including the name of the com-plainant, will be given to the teacher upon request.
--
Professional Development
15-1 The parties support the principle of continuing the train-ing of teachers, participation by teachers in professional organizations in the areas of their specialization, and leaves for work on advanced degrees in special studies.
15-2 The Board agrees to provide funds for teachers who desire to attend instructional area conferences, with prior approval by the appropriate District administrator. In order to implement this provision, the District agrees for the 2003-2004 school year to provide $75,000. For the 20042005 school year, the District agrees to budget $124,334 plus a cost of living increase for the 2003-2004 school year. Both parties agree to review this article at the 2004 bargaining session as an item mutually brought to the table. This amount shall be increased each school year by an amount commensurate with the percentage increase to the base salary as specified in Article 44. Travel, meals, lodging, registration fees, and substitute teachers shall be deemed appropriate ex-penses to the Board, unless otherwise mutually agreed. Such teachers attending conferences and meetings shall be granted sufficient leave time to attend without loss of compensation.
15-2-1 A leave committee consisting of four (4) class-room teachers, appointed by the Association, and one (1) administrator, appointed by the Superintendent or his/her designee, will review all applications for leave and make appropriate recommendations.
15-3 After-school courses, workshops, conferences, and programs designed to improve the quality of instruction will be provided. Every effort will be made to obtain people with the highest qualifications to participate in the presentation of such programs. All teachers desiring to attend shall be allowed to do so. District inservice credit will be granted under the following guidelines:
15-3-1 All inservice course work for inservice credit for advancement on the salary schedule shall be presented to the principal for his/her approval prior to taking courses, except in cases of emergency.
15-3-2 Inservice credit courses, which support the current teaching assignment, or those courses which support efforts to qualify for a planned change of position within the District will be approved for advancement on the salary schedule.
15-3-3 Any inservice credit courses for which the above criteria do not apply may be accorded credit for advancement on the salary schedule only upon application and approval by the building principal and the Registrar/Staff Development. This application must include a description of the course, including course number and credit value, with a statement explaining how this course will enhance the value of the individual's service function.
15-3-4 Beginning September, 2003, inservice credit shall be granted on the basis of seven and one half (7.5) hours, or major portion thereof, for one half (1/2) credit, or fifteen (15) hours, or major portion thereof, for one (1) full credit upon satisfactory completion of the inservice.
15-3-5 Denial of inservice credit may be subject to the grievance procedure.
15-4 Attendance at professional growth or inservice courses outside the forty (40) hour workweek shall be voluntary, except in the case of probationary teachers who may be required to participate in priority inservice activities in order to receive training in teaching the approved District curriculum.
15-4-1 Probationary teachers who are required to participate outside the forty (40) hour workweek shall have the option of inservice credit for advancement on the salary schedule or shall be paid at the rate of $19.00 per hour upon satisfactory completion of the inservice course.
15-4-2 Probationary teachers shall not be required to attend more than ten (10) hours, or two (2) sessions, whichever is less, per school year of priority inservice scheduled outside the forty (40) hour workweek.
15-4-3 When approved Jefferson County inservice credit courses are recommended for the teacher and approved by the principal or immediate super-visor, the necessary extra travel of that teacher to attend such courses will be reim-bursed at the rate listed in Section 44-15. However, such reimbursement for travel is not applicable if the inservice course is to be used for advancement on the salary schedule.
15-5 It is the responsibility of every teacher to continue pro-fessional development to keep abreast of new developments and trends in his/her field.
15-6 Non-contact school days shall be used to allow the staff at each school time for curriculum development and improve-ment, evaluation and recording of grades, inservice educa-tion, parent-teacher conferences, student scheduling, coordination between schools, and other educationally-related activities, as determined by the principal after consultation with the liaison committee and the area administrator.
15-7 College credit earned from a four (4)-year degree-granting accredited college or university shall be granted under the following guidelines:
http://jeffcoweb.jeffco.kl2xo.us/emprelations/jcea/article_15.html
15-7-1 Those courses which support the qualifications for an advanced degree program applicable to the education profession, or courses which actually support the current teaching assignment, or those courses which support efforts to qualify for a planned change of position within the District will be approved for advancement on the salary schedule.
15-7-2 Courses which are not authorized for re-licensure credit in Colorado cannot be used for salary advancement, except as outlined in Sections 15-7-4 and 15-7-5.
15-7-3 College course work taken as a correspondence course or on-line is applicable to salary advancement when taken from an accredited college or university.
15-7-4 Any courses for which the above criteria do not apply, or course work secured from a two (2)-year junior college or community college, may be accorded credit for advancement of the salary schedule only upon application and approval by the Division of Instruction. This application must include a description of the course, including course number, sponsoring school and credit value, with a statement explaining how the course will enhance the value of the individual's service function.
15-7-5 The amount of credit granted for advancement of the salary schedule for junior or community college courses shall be accepted in accordance with credit granted by the junior or community college to a maximum of three (3) semester hours. Credit exceeding three (3) semester hours shall be granted only at the amount that a four (4) year approved training institution granted for a similar course.
15-7-6 In instances where the principal and the Division of Instruction disagree on the granting of credit, as outlined in Section 15-7-4, the issue shall be referred to the Assistant Superintendent for Instructional Services for a decision. Any such decision shall be subject to the grievance procedure.
15-8 Credit for telecommunication courses shall be granted under the following guidelines:
15-8-1 Telecommunication courses shall be defined as a coordinated learning system based on a series of television/video programs. Said courses must be supplemented by printed materials (i.e., text, study guide, readings, etc.). Further, such courses must provide local faculty involvement in the form of lectures and/or consultation.
15-8-2 Teachers must submit a written application to the Registrar/Staff Development prior to the beginning of the course in order to receive credit for telecommunication courses.
15-8-3 This application must include a description of how the criteria as set forth in Sections 15-7-5 and 15-8-1 will be met.
15-8-4 Credit for such courses will be granted in accordance with the provisions of Section 15-7-6.
15-9 Professional Development Experiences (personal experience projects and individual curriculum projects) may be accorded credit through the Registrar/Staff Development. The coordination of such projects will occur through the following procedure:
15-9-1 Submission of information about the project in advance of its beginning with evidence that the performance, product, or service will benefit the District.
15-9-2 Prior agreement concerning criteria for judging the outcome and the amount of credit to be awarded.
15-9-3 Participation in, and completion of, the project.
15-9-4 Submission of evidence supporting the terms of the prior agreement.
15-10 Graduate credit is interpreted as credit awarded by an accredited institution applicable to a degree beyond the bachelor's degree.
--
D. Timeline in which improvement is to occur.
E. A description of the assistance the principal or immediate supervisor will provide in supporting the teacher's remediation plan.
16-11-1 The teacher and the principal, or his/her building-level administrative designee, will work together to correct established areas of deficiency.
16-11-2 Teachers with identified teaching deficiencies may be subject to annual evaluations.
16-12 If the evaluator considers the alleged deficiencies of a teacher to be such as to justify his/her dismissal, the teacher should be specifically advised of such alleged deficiencies, and that his/her failure to correct them will result in a recommendation for his/her dismissal.
16-13 If a recommendation for teacher dismissal is made by the evaluator, written notification shall be received by the teacher prior to the meeting of the Board at which action is to be taken.
--
16-14 A teacher who is not recommended for reemployment shall be given the reasons in writing, if requested by the teacher. 16-15 The provisions of this Article shall be governed by all applicable Colorado State Statutes. 16-16 The Association will appoint the teacher members of the District's Performance Evaluation Council. 16-17 The Board and the Association shall jointly develop forms for evaluation of teacher personnel.
Page 3 of 3
TUBfr,,. "H
J^fto^rSchooiB Horn*!
http://jeffcoweb.jeffco.kl2.co.us/emprelations/jcea/article_ 16.html
ARTICLE 17
Personnel Files
17-1 Personnel Files
17-1-1 Teachers will have the right to review the contents of their personnel files and make copies of any documents contained therein.
17-1-2 No material derogatory to a teacher's conduct, service, character, or personality will be placed in his/her official personnel and/or school file, unless the teacher has had an opportunity to review the material. The teacher will acknowledge that he/she has had the opportunity to review such material by affixing his/her signature to the copy to be filed, with the express understanding that such signature in no way indi-cates agreement with the contents thereof. The teacher will also have the right to submit a written answer to such material, and his\her answer shall be reviewed by the teacher employment administrator, or his/her designee, and attached to the file copy. The teacher's official personnel file will be maintained by Human Resources and housed at the Education Center.
http://jeffcowebjeffco.kl2xo.us/emprelations/jcea/article_17.html
ARTICLE 18
Page 1 of 3
Class Size
18-1 The parties recognize that maximum attention to students by the teacher is desirable to ensure the high quality education that is the goal of both the Association and the Board. It is also acknowledged that the primary duty and responsibility of the teacher is to teach, and that the organization of the school, the school day and assignment of students to classes should be directed toward ensuring that the energies of the teacher are primarily utilized to this end.
18-2 The Board and the Association further acknowledge that proper class size is a function of many factors, including course objectives, subject matter, teaching process, scheduling patterns, and style of educational activity. Further, that every effort will be made to adjust class size to allow individual attention to each student when that is the required mode of instruction, and except in any emergency situations, pupils will not be placed in any classroom in larger numbers than the capacity of the teaching facilities and stations available in that classroom.
18-3 The Association and the Board recognize all grades as being very critical in the educational development of the student. Further, both parties recognize that class size has an effect upon the students' experience. Accordingly, it is mutually agreed that every effort will be made to limit the class size as follows:
18-3-1 Average class size in grades K-6 and Specials are defined below beginning in the fall of 2003:
Grade Level
Kindergarten Grades One, Two and Three Grade Four Grades Five and Six
Elementary Specials staffing is as follows:
Acceptable
Target
Range
f24
I 22-26
J
[20
--
18-3-3-1 The aforementioned secondary load shall be accomplished by staffing high schools at a ratio of 42.5 teachers per 1,000 students and middle schools at a ratio of 43.5 teachers per 1,000 students.
18-4 Prior to assigning any educationally and/or emotionally handicapped self-contained student to a regular education (including elementary specials) classroom, the teacher having responsibility for implementing an Individual Education Plan (IEP) shall be given an opportunity to contribute to the IEP or be advised of his/her implementation responsibilities, if their presence is not deemed to be essential to the IEP development. The teacher will also be provided with assistance from Special Education and Related Services, as determined by the teacher and the principal.
18-5 In order to implement these two (2) provisions, 18-3-1 and 18-3-2 the District and the Association will continue the Class Size Relief Committee consisting of four (4) teachers appointed by the Association President and four (4) administrators appointed by the Superintendent or his/her designee.
18-5-1 The committee will select its own chairperson.
18-5-2 The committee will establish the guidelines, criteria, and procedures for allocation of said funds. The Class Size Relief Committee will continue its current operation procedures, unless the parties mutually agree to modify said procedures.
18-5-3 Class size relief requests shall be channeled through the Building (teacher-administrator) Liaison Committee to the Class Size Relief Committee, in accordance with 18-5-2 above.
18-5-4 The District will grant necessary and reasonable release time to committee members to perform necessary duties of the committee.
18-5-5 Upon approval of the Superintendent or his/her designee, decisions of the Class Size Relief Committee shall be final.
18-6 Any teacher assigned to perform non-teaching duties of an administrative or supervisory nature for fifty (50) percent or more
http://jeffcowebjeffco.kl2.co.us/emprelations/jcea/article_18.html
of his/her workday shall not be counted in the staffing ratio, unless the teachers within a building or administrative area approve such assignment by a majority vote. The results of the vote will be kept on record. This action may be subject to annual review.
18-7 In no instance shall a full teaching position within a building, as permitted by the ratio, be converted to a classified position.
18-8 In order to implement this provision, the parties agree to the following:
1. The principal will review his/her staffing at the beginning of each school year and will make adjustments to conform to the ranges established herein.
2. If the class size standard is exceeded when school starts, a primary (K-2) teacher may appeal to his/her principal to adjust his/her class size to conform to said standard.
3. Upon receipt of the appeal, the principal will attempt to rectify the situation by hiring additional teaching staff, if at all possible, and will involve the teacher(s) who requested the adjustment and the liaison chairperson. If a satisfactory resolution is reached, the parties shall reduce the resolution to writing and each shall sign it.
4. If agreement cannot be reached, an appeal may be initiated. Said appeal shall be reviewed by the area administrator. The area administrator shall respond within ten (10) working days.
5. If a teacher feels his/her contractual rights were violated in this process, the teacher may file a grievance.
18-9 The Association and the District agree that any development of new, or changes in current staffing practices and/or ratios for any teacher or group of teachers, will involve the Association with the intent of developing an agreement that is mutually acceptable to both parties.
J e f f c o ^ f Schools Horrid
http://Jeffcowebjeffco.kl 2.co.us/emprelati^
--
Student Discipline and Teacher Protection
19-1 The Board recognizes its responsibility to give all reasonable support and assistance to teachers with respect to the maintenance of control and discipline in the classroom and in the performance of professionally assigned duties. Whenever it appears that a particular pupil requires the attention of professional specialists, the District will take reasonable steps to assist the teacher with the responsibilities related to such pupil.
19-1-1 In accordance with State law, the principal or designee shall communicate disciplinary information concerning any student enrolled in the school to any teacher who has direct contact with the student in the classroom and to any counselor who has direct contact with the student. Persons who receive such information shall maintain the confidentiality of the information and shall not communicate the information to any other persons.
19-2 A committee at each school site will be specifically charged to collaboratively develop, implement, monitor and revise building level student discipline policies, procedures and responsibilities consistent with District policies. The school site will determine the committee structure. This committee may include representatives of the school's administration, student body and community, however a majority of the committee must be elected by and from the teaching staff. Upon request, the District will provide training in matters related to student discipline for school discipline committees and school sites. The committee shall meet at least twice a year during the workday. A teacher's evaluation shall not be adversely affected by participation on the committee. The committee's responsibilities will include, but not be limited to:
19-2-1 Involving and educating parents and other stakeholders;
19-2-2 Establishing a process for participation in the development of remediation plans for habitually disruptive students by appropriate staff;
19-2-3 Establishing a process for communication of remediation plans for habitually disruptive students to appropriate staff.
19-2-4 Clarifying rights of students and teachers.
19-2-5 Establishing an annual process for communicating the school's discipline policies to staff, students and parents.
19-2-6 Reviewing annually, the information contained in the State Accreditation Report which is used to gather school-based student discipline data categorized by infraction - including habitually disruptive, action taken, gender and racial-ethnic distributions.
19-3 It is recognized that discipline problems are less likely to occur in classes which are well taught and where a high level of student interest is maintained. It is likewise recognized that when discipline problems occur, they may be dealt with most constructively by encouragement, praise and emphasis upon the child's desirable characteristics, as well as the consistent application of reasonable and predictable consequence for student behavior.
19-3-1 A teacher may use reasonable force as is necessary to protect himself/herself from attack or to prevent physical injury to another person or damage to property while acting within the scope of his/her employment.
19-3-2 Each school shall develop specific procedures for staff intervention in fights and inform all staff regarding such procedures. In order to minimize the possibility of harm to staff or students, staff is encouraged to exercise good judgment before physically intervening in any altercation.
19-4 A teacher may exclude a pupil from one (1) class period or session and refer such student to the principal or assistant principal consistent with the school discipline plan. In such cases, the teacher will furnish the principal or his/her designee, as promptly as his/her teaching obligation allows, full particulars of the incident in writing. However, every effort will be made by the teacher to submit to the principal or his/her designee the full particulars of the incident in writing by the end of the teacher's workday. The principal or his/her designee will respond in writing to teachers in a timely manner (normally within 24 hours) regarding such written disciplinary referrals. Every effort will be made by the principal or his/her designee to communicate with the teacher prior to the student's return to class.
19-5 Suspension of students from school, consistent with District policies, will be imposed only by a principal or his/her designated representative. School authorities will endeavor to achieve correction of student misbehavior through consistent application of the school discipline policy, and through counseling and interviews with the child and his/her parents, when warranted.
19-5-1 In lieu of suspension, the principal or his/her designee may, at his/her discretion permit the student to remain in school on the condition that the student's parent(s) attend class with the student for a period of time established by the principal or designee. This alternative is not automatic. The principal or his/her designee will consult with the student's teachers and obtain their consent before implementing this alternative. In the event that this alternative becomes disruptive, the school will immediately terminate this option.
19-5-2 Consistent with District Policy JK-R, Student Discipline (Habitually Disruptive), a remedial discipline plan will be developed
http://jeffcoweb.jeffco.kl2xo.us/emprelations/jcea/article_19.html
by the principal or his/her designee with the assistance of the student's teacher(s) and any other school personnel involved.
19-6 Any incident of physical and/or verbal threat or assault upon a teacher shall be reported promptly by the teacher to the principal or his/her designee. The District shall make available to the Association, upon request, a summary report of reported incidents of physical and/or verbal threat or assault upon teachers.
19-7 If any teacher is assaulted, complained against, or sued, as a result of acting within the scope of his/her employment, the District will provide legal counsel and render all necessary assistance to the teacher in his/her defense.
19-7-1 Time lost by a teacher in connection with any incident mentioned in Article 19-7 shall not be charged against the teacher.
19-8 In instances where criminal physical assault, or non-sexual child abuse charges are brought against a teacher as a result of dealing with student discipline problems, an internal investigation will be conducted by the Security department. If such internal investigation determines that the teacher was acting within the scope of his/her employment, in a reasonable and prudent manner, and in accordance with District policy and state law, the District will appoint and provide full legal counsel for the teacher's defense. There must be mutual agreement between the District and the teacher regarding any legal support for the appeal process.
19-8-1 If, during the course of an official District investigation, the principal reasonably believes such investigation may lead to disciplinary action against a teacher, the principal shall advise the teacher of his/her rights to representation as per Article 14.
19-9 The District will provide a safe place for teachers to deposit personal property in each school.
19-10 In the event a teacher, while acting within the scope of his/her employment, has his/her clothing or other personal property damaged or destroyed, as a result of an attack, assault, menace, vandalism, or pupil supervision problem the District will reimburse the teacher the cost of repair or the reasonable replacement cost of such property.
19-11 Given prudent and responsible handling, the District will reimburse/replace for wallets/purses, outer-wear and briefcases which are stolen while on school grounds up to $500 or the insurance deductible, whichever is less.
19-12 Given prudent and responsible handling the District will reimburse/replace for stolen or damaged personal property used for instructional purposes at school with prior documentation and approval up to $500 or the insurance deductible, whichever is less.
19-13 The District will pay the insurance deductible up to $500 for automobile damage because of theft or vandalism provided the automobile was on school grounds and the employee was acting within the scope of his/her employment.
19-14 In order for the District to reimburse the teacher for losses as outlined in sections 19-10, 19-11, 19-12, and 19-13, the teacher must: a) submit a written request within ten (10) school days and; b) the District deems the request of the teacher to be meritorious.
Horn*
http://jeffcowebjeffco.kl2.co.us/emprelations/jcea/article_19.html
ARTICLE 20
Teacher-Administrator Liaison
20-1 At the beginning of each school year, the local faculty is responsible for electing a Liaison Committee for each school building or faculty unit. The Committee shall consist of the JCEA faculty representative(s) and other members, as determined by the faculty. The Committee shall meet with the prin-cipal, or his/her designee, if requested by the Liaison Committee, at least once each month during the school year to review and discuss school practices and problems including, but not limited to, use of facilities, staff utilization, building schedules, after-hours duties, student discipline, attendance, and non-contact days, as specified in Sections 9-2 and 15-6. Additional meetings may be held at the request of either party.
20-2 The Liaison Committee will have the right to meet with the faculty before school, after school, and/or at other times by mutual agreement, or at such times as does not disrupt the normal school program.
JeffcOyW Schools Noma
http://jeffcoweb.jeffco.k 12xo.us/emprelations/jcea/article_20.html
--
21-2 Selection Procedures
21-2-1 Chairpersons shall be appointed annually by the principal, after consultation with the members of the department affected.
It is agreed that every effort will be made to provide chairpersons with release time to carry out their duties. Chairpersons who are not afforded release time shall be compensated for their duties at the rate of $1,000 for the school year and will be considered a part of the salary re-opener for the duration of this contract. If the compensation rate is not changed during any re-opener, it shall remain at $1,000 for the duration of the Agreement.
Home
http://jeffcowebjeffco.kl2xo.us/emprelations/jcea/article_21.html
Jeffco Schools: JCEA Negotiated Agreement ARTICLE 22
Supervision of Student Teachers 22-1 No teacher shall be required to supervise any student teacher.
22-2 A teacher who supervises a student teacher shall have had a minimum of three (3) years' teaching experience, at least two (2) of them in Jefferson County, if possible.
22-3 The supervising teacher shall be paid, in addition to his/her contracted salary, the total amount of money received from the sponsoring college or university.
22-4 Supervising teachers shall work with the university pro-gram coordinator and principal in developing extensive opportunities for the student teachers to observe and practice the arts and skills of the profession.
--
Article 44: Provisions of Teacher Salary Schedule
Appendix 1: Salary Schedules
Appendix 2: Insurance Programs
Appendix 3: Memorandums of Understanding
Appendix 4: Compensation Agreement 2003-2004
Index
http://jeffcoweb.jeffco.kl2.co.us/emprelations/jcea/toc.html
ARTICLE 29
Pilot Programs
29-1 The District and the Association recognize that pilot pro-grams may contribute significantly to the enhancement of educational opportunities, performance and techniques within the District, and encourage the responsible implementation of pilot programs. All pilot programs involving teachers shall involve JCEA from their inception, with all parties in agreement prior to implementation. Pilot programs instituted in the regular curriculum shall be implemented as approved, including materials, physical facilities, lay personnel and licensed personnel.
29-2 Teacher input, as mutually agreed to by the District and the Association, will be part of District program improve-ment, development and evaluation.
--
Summer School Programs
31-1 The announcement of all summer school programs, including federally-supported summer school programs, and a general description of the types of positions to be filled will be adequately publicized in the District's current communication media by the Teacher Employment Administrator or his/her designee. Whenever possible, notification will be given by May 1.
31-2 The number of teachers employed will be dependent upon enrollment in the summer school program.
31-3 Openings in all summer school teaching positions will be filled first by teacher applicants who are qualified and are already employed by the District.
31 -4 The rate of pay shall be as set forth in Section 44-13.
31-5 Summer school teachers shall be entitled to one (1) hour of sick leave for every twenty (20) hours of service rendered. Such leave is applicable only to summer school teaching.
JksfhaJJJ^fSScchhcools
Harms
http://jeffcoweb.jeffco.kl2.co.us/emprelations/jcea/article_31.html
ARTICLE 32
Application for Administrative Positions
32-1 Openings for administrative positions, including the posi-tion of special projects administrator under programs funded by the federal government, will be posted in the following manner:
32-1-1 When school is in session, a notice must be in the District's current communication media and posted, whenever possible, at least ten (10) days before the final date when applications must be submitted. Each teacher who desires to apply for such vacancy shall submit his/her application in writing to the teacher employment administrator, or his/her designee, within the time limit specified in the notice.
32-1-2 Each teacher who has been an applicant and wishes to apply for an administrative position for which a vacancy may occur during the summer vacation period shall submit his/her application to the teacher employment administrator, or his/her designee, and provide an address where he/she can be reached during the summer vacation period. The teacher employment administrator, or his/her designee, shall notify such teacher of any vacancy.
32-2 All qualified teachers will be given adequate opportunity to make application for such positions, and the Board agrees to give consideration to the professional back-ground of all applicants, the length of time each has been in the District, and other related factors. In filling vacancies, where applicant qualifications are equal, pref-erence will be given to teachers already employed by the District. Each applicant not selected will be notified by the teacher employment administrator, or his/her designee, immediately upon the filling of the vacancy.
JMmjR? Sdhftol*
--
34-4-3 Vacancies which occur after the last posting in June through September 15 and are not filled with an involuntary transferee or leave returnee, shall be filled with a continuing contract teacher with the approval of the area administrator and subject to review by the Transfer Oversight Committee.
34-4-4 The District and JCEA will form a Transfer Oversight Committee (TOC), which will meet regularly between February 1 and June 30 and at any other time as needed. Each party will appoint three members to this committee. The TOC's purpose is to discuss, investigate, resolve, and make recommendations concerning pertinent issues related to transfer. The TOC will be provided, in a timely manner, all information needed, including but not limited to, job description, site human resource plans, lists the District has compiled of temporary contract teacher, involuntary transferees, leave returnees, teachers who have been transferred, and retirees.
34-5 Voluntary Teacher Transfer
34-5-1 Non-probationary and probationary teachers who teach a majority of their time in the discipline posted shall be eligible to
http://jeffcoweb.jeffco.kl2.co.us/emprelations/jcea/article_34.html
Page 2 of 6
file an application for restricted open positions. Non-probationary teachers, probationary teachers, and temporary teachers shall be eligible to file an application for unrestricted positions. Temporary teachers are defined as those teachers employed first semester as either long-term substitutes or temporary teachers and who continue for the second semester as temporary teachers. If the District has initial screening criteria which the transferees must meet in order to be interviewed for an opening, said criteria will be identified on the job description (to include job title, job number, job responsibilities, and job screening criteria). Applicants who meet the pre-screening criteria will be granted an interview, unless more than six (6) applicants meet the prescreening criteria. If more than six (6) candidates meet the pre-screening criteria, the selection committee may reduce the number to six (6) using the one page resume and one page statement of educational philosophy submitted with the transfer request form. The job description will be on-line. Transfer requests are accepted only on-line through the on-line application process.
34-5-1-1 Teachers who do not meet the pre-screening criteria will be so notified in a timely fashion.
34-5-1-2 Teachers who are not selected to be interviewed using the one (1) page resume and one page statement of educational philosophy will be so notified in a timely fashion.
34-5-2 Voluntary transfers for positions advertised between February 1 through June 30 as outlined in Section 34-4-2, for the next school year shall take place as follows:
34-5-2-1 Open positions shall be identified as outlined in Section 34-4, and applications for transfer shall be processed as outlined in Section 34-5-3.
34-5-2-2 The applicants for transfer will be advised of the Selection Committee's decision in a timely manner.
34-5-2-3 Positions that come open between September 15 and the end of the school year will be filled on a temporary basis until the close of that school year. If the position continues, it will be advertised during the transfer season.
34-5-3 The Selection Committee will interview all applicants as referenced in section 34-5-1 who meet the pre-screening criteria. In determining the best-qualified candidate for the position, the Selection Committee shall base their consensus selection on all of the following:
A. The teacher's experience and/or qualifications related to the vacancy.
B. Information obtained from interviews of selected candidates.
C. Evaluations and relevant information in the central personnel file.
D. Job requirements as specified in the job requisition.
E. Length of service in the District.
34-5-3-1 The Selection Committee will determine what weight will be given to each of the criteria listed above.
--
An example of anticipated need would be knowledge of scheduled surgery and recovery period for which the teacher did not have enough accrued sick leave to cover the illness in ques-tion.
35-2-3-4 When Long-Term Disability Insurance applies:
When a teacher applies for, and is eligible to receive, Long-Term Disa-bility Insurance coverage, that teacher may utilize available accrued sick leave to carry the teacher's regular salary until the Long-Term Disability coverage would apply. If the teacher still has a balance of accrued sick leave days at the time the Long-Term Disability Insurance becomes effective, the unused portion of accrued sick leave will be reserved for future use, after the teacher returns to work from using Long-Term Disability Insurance.
There is a one hundred twenty (120) calendar day waiting period from the time application is made until Long-Term Disability Insurance becomes effective. If the teacher does not have enough
http://jeffcowebjeffco.kl2xo.us/emprelations/jcea/article_35.html
Page 2 of 8 2/5/04
accrued sick leave to cover the illness during this waiting period, the teacher may apply for Extended Sick Leave coverage, and, if eligible, will be granted up to a maximum of sixty (60) days of Extended Sick Leave, depending upon the individual teacher's eligibility to draw from Extended Sick Leave, in order to provide the teacher with regular salary during the illness, except as provided in Section 35-2-3-1 -(C).
Page 3 of 8
35-2-3-5 A teacher returning from paid sick leave, not exceeding one year, will return to his/her former or compara-ble position at the same school.
35-3 Verification of Illness
Upon notice to a teacher, the teacher shall be required to furnish proof of illness, proof of fitness to return to duty, or proof of fitness to continue to perform duty, as verified by a written statement from a licensed physician. If deemed necessary by the District, the teacher may be required to be examined by a physician designated by the District, at District expense. If a difference of opinion exists between the two (2) physicians, a third physician may be designated, at District expense, to render an opin-ion.
35-4 Personal Leave
35-4-1 Teachers will be entitled to two (2) days leave of absence without loss of pay each school year. Notice to the teacher's principal or other immediate super-visor that personal leave is to be taken will be given at least one (1) day before taking such leave (except in cases of emergencies).
35-4-2 Teachers shall be allowed to accumulate unused personal leave from year to year and will be apprised of such accumulation.
35-4-3 A teacher will be paid for accumulated personal leave days, upon retirement, at the same rate as sick leave reimbursement; or the teacher may use accumulated personal leave as outlined in Sections 35-42-3-1 and 35-4-3-2.
35-4-3-1 Teachers may use one (1) or two (2) accumulated personal leave days in accord-ance with the provisions of Section 354-1.
35-4-3-2 With prior approval of the immediate supervisor, more than two (2) accumu-lated personal leave days may be used at any one time. Written requests for leave must be submitted to the immediate supervisor at least five (5) days before taking such leave, except in cases of emergency. The written request must provide information justifying the circumstances which merit consideration for the granting of said leave.
35-5 Professional Leave
35-5-1 Teachers who are designated as official representatives by the Association shall submit a short leave form to their principal for the purpose of attending JCEA, CEA and NEA functions. Applications must be made at least five (5) school days in advance of the time required, except in cases of emergencies.
35-5-2 A total of two hundred seventy-five (275) release days per calendar year for professional leave will be authorized by the Assistant Superintendent of Human Resources or his/her designee. Should there be a conflict in providing such leave due to school matters, the Association will be advised, in order to select a replacement. In the event of any such problems, Teacher Employment Administrator or his/her designee shall render the final decision.
35-6 Bereavement Leave
35-6-1 Permanent teachers will be granted up to five (5) days' bereavement leave, which may be deducted from either personal leave or accrued sick leave, in the event of death of any member of the immediate family. The teacher involved will determine whether the days are deducted from personal or sick leave.
35-6-1-1 If there are extenuating circumstances, i.e., extended out of state or foreign travel, or other unavoidable circumstances, more than five (5) days of bereavement leave will be granted. In such instances, the leave will be deducted from personal or accrued sick leave. If such leaves are exhausted, the teacher will reimburse the District at the substitute rate of pay for the days used. This reimbursement will be made even if no substitute is required.
35-6-2 Members of the immediate family are defined as follows:
--
35-7-7 Application for sabbatical leave should be filed in the office of the Assistant Superintendent of Human Resources or his/her designee not later than March 1 or October 1 preceding the semester when it is desired that the leave will become effective.
35-7-8 The application should contain detailed plans, giving all specifics which would aid in evaluat-ing the request, full explanation of how such travel, study, or research will improve the teaching and\or benefit the Jefferson County School District, and other pertinent informa-tion.
35-7-9 A teacher on sabbatical leave will receive any regularly-scheduled salary increases granted teachers in service, and will also be subject to any general salary reductions which may be effected. In determining the teacher's place-ment on the salary schedule, when he/she returns to regular employment, full experience credit will be given for the time spent on sabbatical leave. Also the District shall continue to pay the cost of insurance benefits while a teacher is on sabbatical leave.
35-7-10 Pay for sabbatical leave for one school year shall be one-half (1/2) the annual salary; for one (1) semester, one-fourth (1/4) the annual salary. Payments are made on a monthly basis, in the same manner as regularly-employed teachers, unless otherwise approved by the Board of Education and the Superintendent.
--
35-7-16 Whenever more applicants request sabbatical leaves than can be granted in any one (1) year, other factors being equal, the length of service in the Jefferson County School District and/or the reason for the request shall be the deter-mining factors).
35-7-17 A Sabbatical Leave Committee consisting of four (4) classroom teachers appointed by the Associa-tion and three (3) administrators appointed by the Assistant Superintendent of Human Resources or his/her designee with the Assistant Superintendent of Human Resources or his/her designee serving as chairper-son, will review all applications for sabbatical leave and make appropriate recommendations through the Superintendent to the Board of Edu-cation.
35-7-18 Remuneration to the applicant from other sources such as scholarships, fellowships, grants, etc., will not affect the granting of sabbatical leave with pay.
35-7-19 Taking into consideration the recommendations of the Sabbatical Leave Committee, as well as other factors, the Superintendent shall recommend to the Board of Education those applicants he/she believes will render the greatest service to the District.
35-7-20 Final selection will be made by the Board of Education.
35-8 Military Leave
35-8-1 Leave for involuntary military service will be granted to any regularly-appointed teacher.
35-8-2 Teachers should notify their principal or immediate supervisor and the Human Resources division immediately.
35-8-3 A copy of the military notice or orders should be submitted to the Human Resources division.
35-8-4 Teachers who belong to reserve units will be allowed to take time off from their regular duties for a period not to exceed ninety (90) days.
35-8-5 Exclusive of travel allowances, if the employee's salary from an Armed Forces Reserve Unit is less than the gross pay from the School District, he/she will receive the difference between the two (2) salaries.
35-8-6 When the teacher has any choice as to the time of service, he/she will request a time that will be favorable to the needs of the District.
35-8-7 Approval is granted only by the Superintendent.
35-8-8 All teachers shall be given the benefit of any salary increments and sick leave allowances which would have been credited if they had remained with the District.
35-8-9 The Superintendent or the Board of Education reserves the right to grant or to withhold salary increments or to revoke or deny extensions of leave to employees who choose to remain in military service beyond the compulsory date or period.
35-8-10 A teacher returning from military leave not exceeding one (1) year will be returned to his/her former or comparable position at the same school.
--
37-4 Not later than October 31 of each year, the District will provide the Association with a list of those teachers who have voluntarily authorized the District to deduct dues for the organizations named in Section 37-1 above. The District will also submit amended lists to the Association each succeeding month.
37-5 The District shall, upon receipt of authorization from a teacher, deduct from the teacher's salary and make appro-priate remittance of insurance plans and/or other programs currently approved by the Association and the District.
--
A. In the event two (2) or more teachers have the same length of service in the District, the teachers affected will be ranked on the Full-time Continuous Service List as to when they signed their employment contract with the District.
B. In the event ties still exist, teacher(s) so affected shall participate in a drawing by lot to determine position on the Full-time Continuous Service List. The Association and all teachers so affected shall be notified in writing of the date, time and place of the drawing and shall have an opportunity to attend.
39-6-1-2 Upon written request of the teacher(s) identified for reduction, the District shall investigate assignments in other programs for which the teacher(s) is licensed and qualified to teach. Under this article, a teacher shall be deemed to be licensed and qualified to render a teaching service if he/she meets any one (1) of the following:
A. Has the appropriate licensure and endorsement; or
B. Has the proper courses to meet accreditation standards; or for those teachers hired after 2003, meet the State definition of highly qualified by 2006.
C. Can successfully complete the training requirement in order to fulfill the job responsibilities prior to the beginning of the assignment.
Exceptions to the above may be made only when the District can substantiate that by reassigning the teacher(s) identified for reduction it will be unable to meet the identified instructional needs of the school or department affected.
39-6-1-3 If the length of continuous service in the District, licensure and qualifications entitle teachers to be reassigned to other positions, the following shall apply:
A. They shall be assigned to open positions. B. If open positions are not availa-ble, teachers with less continu-ous service in the District shall be reduced to achieve sufficient open positions.
39-7 Should transfer of retained teachers be necessary as a result of a layoff, the provisions of Article 34 shall apply.
39-8 The District will make every effort to provide written no-tif ication to the teacher(s) affected at least forty-five (45) days prior to the date the Board takes official action. The Association and each teacher involved shall be provided a copy of the notice. The teacher's address, as it appears on the School District's records, shall be deemed to be the correct address. After the Board takes official action, all teachers laid off shall receive a written layoff notice from the District.
39-9 Review of Individual Cancellation.
39-9-1 Within fourteen (14) days of receiving the lay-off notice, a teacher may request a review of the action by the Board of Education. If the teacher so requests, the Board and the Associa-tion, through their representatives, shall select an impartial hearing officer from avail-able sources to conduct a hearing. In the event that the parties are unable to agree upon a hearing officer, said hearing officer shall be selected as per Sections 5-5-1-1, 5-5-1-2, and 5-5-1-3 of this Agreement. When appropriate, more than one (1) case may be heard at the same time.
--
39-9-4 The hearing shall be conducted informally. The hearing officer shall have the authority to make appropriate procedural rules. If either party requests, the hearing shall be in a closed session. The teacher may represent himself/herself or be represented by the Association.
39-9-5 The hearing shall be limited to those grounds specified in the request for a hearing and supported by such proof as is offered, provided a hearing officer may consider additional argu-ments and facts as specified in Section 39-9-2. A decision shall be made within fifteen (15) days following completion of the hearing.
39-9-6 The hearing officer will make written findings and recommendations to the Board and the teacher. The cost of the hearing officer shall be borne by the District.
39-9-7 The Board will take final action on the findings and recommendations at its next regular meeting.
39-9-8 This procedure is the only procedure that may be used in a reduction in force under this Agree-ment.
39-10 Recall Procedure.
39-10-1 Laid-off personnel who wish to be considered for reemployment will provide written notification to the Assistant Superintendent of Human Resources or his/her designee within sixty (60) calendar days of written notification. Recall will occur in reverse order, as set forth in Section 39-5.
39-10-2 All teachers who are laid off and have notified the Assistant Superintendent of Human Resources of their interest for reemployment shall be placed in an employment pool for recall.
39-10-3 When a vacancy occurs for which a teacher on the list has the required licensure and quali-fications, a letter of intent to reemploy shall be offered thirty (30) days prior to the date of reemployment.
39-10-4 A teacher who is offered reemployment under these circumstances will have fourteen (14) days from the date of receipt of notification to accept or reject the offer. If the offer of reemployment is rejected, the teacher will for-feit his/her right to recall.
39-10-5 Teachers shall remain on the recall list for three (3) years from the date of layoff, unless the teachers waive such right in writing.
39-10-6 When recalled within thirty-nine (39) months, all accrued benefits, including non-probationary status, shall be restored.
39-11 Rights and Benefits While Laid Off.
39-11-1 All laid-off teachers for whom no positions are available shall be placed on an unpaid leave of absence for a period of not more than three (3) years.
39-11-2 Laid-off teachers may apply to teach as substitute teachers and will be placed on a priority list.
39-11-3 While teachers are on recall status due to layoff, they shall have the option to remain an active participant in fringe benefit pro-gram(s) by contributing thereto the full cost of the program(s).
39-11-4 Teachers on recall status may participate in all applicable training opportunities offered by the District.
39-11-5 A teacher on recall status may utilize the grievance procedure only to the extent that it affects him/her individually.
Jeflfco JW Schools Home
--
Supplemental Retirement Pension Plan
42-1 The Supplemental Retirement Pension Plan for teachers will be in accordance with current Board Policy and Regulation GCPE/GDPE. The Association will be notified in advance of any contemplated modifications of the present Supplemental Retirement Pension Plan. The parties will utilize the District Retirement Committee representing all employee groups to attempt to reach mutual agreement on changes to the plan. The Association will appoint two (2) teacher members to the Supplemental Retirement Committee. If agreement is not reached by utilizing the process outlined above, the matter shall be subject to negotiation.
The 2003-2004 budget will include nine million dollars to fund the Supplemental Retirement Program.
Mlm.JPw%t3w*M
--
Site-Based Variances
43-1 A Variance Review Committee will be established composed of five (5) Association appointees and five (5) District appointees. The District may appoint one (1) non-employee to the committee. The Superintendent (or designee) will meet to review possible candidates and make a recommendation to the parties. The selected individual must be acceptable to both parties.
Responsibilities:
Requests for contract variances will be submitted to a standing Variance Review Committee charged with the following responsibilities:
A. Establishing appropriate criteria, which must include but need not be limited to the following minimum preliminary criteria:
1. The requested variance must be supported by a consensus at the site. Consensus as used here means that those impacted by the proposed variance are in agreement with it or at least agree to support it.
2. The requested variance may not cause a RIF or reduction in the bargaining unit numbers.
3. The requested variance may not cause employees to be displaced. 4. The proposed variance must be educationally sound.
B. Reviewing all requests and determining whether the requested variance meets predetermined criteria. (See "A" above)
C. Identifying those contract provisions that would be impacted.
D. Recommending specific variance language to the parties.
E. Establishing its own calendar of meetings and other operational procedures.
Guidelines:
A. Variances are granted for not more than two (2) years, but may be renewed following these procedures.
B. All members of the Variance Review Committee shall be provided with released time adequate to perform their duties.
C. Each site's requested variance is considered individually and on its own merits.
D. Variances are not precedent setting.
E. The Committee and the parties will make every reasonable effort to respond to requests in a timely manner.
F. The Committee will consider the impact of requested variances on other parts of the District or its operation.
G. When the Committee has reached a decision regarding a requested variance, that decision will be promptly communicated to the District through the Office of Employee Relations and to the Association through the Office of the Executive Director. The parties (District and JCEA) reserve the right to submit the request to the appropriate governing bodies for approval.
H. Variances are granted by mutual agreement of the parties.
Hrnm
http://jeffcoweb.jeffco.kl2.co.us/emprelations/jcea/article_43.html
ARTICLE 44
--
Insurance Programs
2-1 Effective July 1, 2003, the District will contribute $479.00 per month, for each eligible full-time teacher who enrolls for coverage under the District's medical, dental, and vision insurance. Employees will purchase long-term disability, life insurance, and accidental death and dismemberment insurance from this contribution. Each year during negotiations, the amount of the District's contribution will be negotiated as part of any successor agreement. Teachers will receive any remaining money as taxable income.
2-2 Teachers who waive medical insurance will receive $160 per month and will purchase long-term disability, life insurance, and accidental death and dismemberment insurance. Teachers will receive any remaining money as taxable income. To waive medical, dental and/or vision coverage proof of other coverage is needed.
2-3 The District's Insurance Committee shall determine the insurance plans offered for employees. JCEA shall appoint two (2) teacher members of said committee.
2-4 Any cost increase of the insurance package will be considered part of the compensation package negotiated for teachers. The District's Insurance Committee will continue to work on holding down increased costs and examine the market of insurance programs while maintaining current costs or minimize any cost increases. JCEA will discuss any insurance increases with their Board of Directors.
--
The Jefferson County Public Schools and Association are committed to retain and support the visual arts, music and physical education teacher concept at the elementary level. Teachers in the instructional areas of visual art, music, and physical education are provided because they:
1. have proven educational expertise in their fields; 2. provide quality experiences in the subject areas meeting student, District, and community expectations; 3. take best advantage of the instructional time available in these subject areas to provide quality experiential learning; 4. encourage students' creative and aesthetic growth; 5. provide students with safe and proper activities for physical and skill
development; 6. and provide expertise in the safe handling and utilization of various types of equipment, instruments, tools, mediums, and materials
available in the programs.
The regular classroom teacher, normally, does not have the educational background or interest in these areas sufficient to carry out the sophisticated programs in place in Jefferson County Public Schools.
The purpose of these goals is to establish standards for the assignment of elementary visual arts, music and physical education teachers. These goals strive for equity throughout the District regarding teaching loads, frequency of class contact, and length of contact sessions to meet the standards of Board policy relative to the instructional day.
These goals are to be utilized by area administrators and principals as goals for elementary visual arts, music and physical education program implementation effective August, 1995. In the event that an unexpected increase in pupil enrollment or a lack of facilities dictates that these goals cannot be honored, area administrators and principals will take note and initiate adjustments as soon as educationally feasible.
1. Insofar as possible, the goals will be to assign eighteen (18) sections per teacher. *Note: Class size relief may be applied for if the number of sections exceeds nineteen (19).
2. To the extent possible, class size of the visual arts, music and physical education teacher should be consistent with the teaching load of a classroom teacher within the building.
3. Special education students who are mainstreamed into visual art, music, and physical education should be integrated in a manner consistent with the regular classroom. When it is most appropriate educationally to maintain a group of special education students as a separate class in visual arts, music, and physical education, this group shall be counted as a section for the visual arts, music and physical education teachers.
4. There should be time allowed for travel between schools as determined by the principal and area administrator. 5. Expectations for special programs are identified in Key Features documents and other program materials.
When visual arts, music and physical education teachers are assigned to two (2) schools, adjustments are needed regarding expectations for performances, exhibits, and other identified program, as well as time to travel, set up, put away and plan, in order to meet instructional needs at each site. The yearly school calendars should be coordinated in a meeting of the principals and the visual arts, music and physical education teachers involved.
--
CDM recognizes that there are different types of decisions:
--
Allocation of Resources: Suggestions for potential decisions include: Interviewing, selecting and recognizing employees and volunteers; recruiting volunteers; budget development, expenditures and evaluation; grant writing and the use of community and volunteer resources.
Governance and Management: Suggestions for potential decisions include: Room assignments, facility management, support services, transportation, field trips, discipline plan, extra-curricular activities, student progress reporting procedures, scheduling, community relations and communications.
Requests from the site for variances and memoranda of understanding will be reviewed at both the work site and within the articulation areas, as well as by representatives of appropriate State agencies, Board of Education, District administration, employee organizations and community groups. A procedure has been established for seeking variances from the JCEA R-1 Master Agreement.
V. STANDARDS FOR THE CO-OOPERATIVE DECISION-MAKING PROCESS
The following standards and questions are designed to assist in the establishment and ongoing assessment of your co-operative decisionmaking process: Schools/work sites are in various stages of development in their practice of CDM and may use these accordingly.
1. The participants are broadly representative of the school community.
--
existing committees, restructure existing committees, create a new entity, or any combination to meet the defined co-operative decisionmaking standards for their site. 4. Adopt and implement a scope and authority model (who will decide what). 5. Develop method for selecting CDM participants. 6. Plan and provide training for key stakeholders.
Examples and detailed descriptions of how sites have used co-operative decision-making, appointed selected participants, and structured their process are described in the "Co-Operative Decision-Making Resource Book." The Resource Book also includes samples of operating rules, process descriptions and membership structures of existing co-operative decision-making systems. Copies of the resource book will be available in conjunction with the self-assessment video that the Task Force will provide. (See page 7.)
Step Two: Implementation of Site CDM Plan
1. Formalize goals and objectives. 2. Continue training for stakeholders participating in the program. 3. Revisit scope and authority model. 4. Provide ongoing evaluation of program.
VII SUPPORT AND ASSISTANCE
As the District moves toward the full implementation of a co-operative decision-making process, schools/work sites will require support to understand how this process can best meet the needs of the school/work site. To provide this support, a team of trained facilitators will be made available to assist these schools/work sites. District employees, parents and volunteers who have demonstrated an ability to provide positive leadership for the co-operative decision-making process will be recruited as facilitators.
In addition to support and assistance from trained facilitators, there will be a process review to assess the effectiveness of CDM on a Districtwide basis. A Coordinating Committee will be structured to provide this process review.
Site Evaluation
A critical first step in implementing co-operative decision-making in the District will be the identification of a CDM process at each school/work site. This report recommends providing support to participants of training and technical assistance. The Co-Operative Decision-Making (CDM) Task Force will produce an interactive video that will assist all schools/work sites in a self-assessment to determine where they are in the process and what needs to be done. After viewing the video and completing the self-assessment, schools/work sites will determine training needs and utilize their allocation from the CDM funds identified by the Board.
Schools and work sites will also receive a CDM Resource Book that will contain samples from other schools and districts, and a list of resources for assistance and support.
At the conclusion of each year, each school/site will be required to complete a form reporting on how assistance was used as well as the effectiveness of co-operative decision-making efforts. The form will ask for signatures of each participant serving at the school/site.
http://jeffcowebjeffco.kl2.co.us/emprelations/jcea/appendix_3.html
Support and Assistance by Local Facilitators
Page 5 of 7
The District will create a Co-Operative Decision-Making Support Team by training volunteers who will be willing to assist sites on an "as-called" basis. Volunteers will include teachers, administrators, classified employees, parents, students and others who currently use co-operative decision-making at their site.
To create the pool of facilitators, the following organizations should be asked to solicit volunteers for this task. Following training, the names will be compiled for distribution to each school/site council:
Jefferson County Education Association. Jefferson County Administrators Association. Classified School Employees Association. Student Councils. Parent Teacher Association. District Accountability Committee. Volunteers/seniors active in the District.
District CDM Coordinating Committee
A Coordinating Committee will be created with two assigned responsibilities:
Review of site appeals.
District co-operative decision-making assessment.
The Coordinating Committee will meet a minimum of twice a year, mid-year and at the end of the school year, to evaluate progress in cooperative decision-making efforts throughout the District. To conduct this review, the Committee will use the data from the feedback provided by sites at the end of the year.
The second function proposed for the Coordinating Committee is to provide an appeals process for schools/sites. The Coordinating Committee should be composed of Board of Education appointees and representatives of JCEA, JCAA, CSEA District Accountability, Parent/Teacher/Student Associations, volunteers and community organizations.
When presented with an appeal, the Coordinating Committee, using the standards set for all schools/sites, will determine if the appeal is a cooperative decision-making issue. It is not the purpose of the Coordinating Committee to review site decisions, but to assist in assuring a cooperative process has taken place.
The Coordinating Committee members may be expected to gather appropriate data prior to convening meetings. Coordinating Committee meetings will be convened to review appeals, to collect information from all parties and to respond with suggestions for process improvement.
Co-operative decision-making is a process designed to encourage involvement for mutual benefit. It is the expectation of the Board of Education that the process be developed within each school and department. The purpose of the District Co-Operative Decision-Making Coordinating Committee is to assure that such a process is in place and to assist in facilitating the process where possible. The issues and procedures used in co-operative decision-making will always be within the limitations of Board of Education policies and procedures, negotiated agreements, and State laws.
--
--
The current salary schedule will be continued for four (4) years from September 1, 2003 through August 31, 2007, with the following exceptions and conditions for the 2003-2004 school year.
1. Cost of Living adjustment 1.2% effective September 1, 2003. 2. Steps will be paid effective September 1, 2003, as per normal practice. 3. Educational levels will continue to be paid as per normal practice. 4. Insurance - The District will establish a cafeteria benefits plan with the District paying
$479.00 toward the plan for the 2003-2004 school year. Employees who opt out of all applicable insurance coverages will receive $160.00 per month. The District Insurance Committee will review the various plan designs and make recommendations to the District and employee groups. The amount the District will contribute toward the insurance benefits programs will be agreed to annually as part of the compensation package during negotiations. 5. Article 18 - Class Size: For the 2003-2004 school year, the District will maintain the current class size ratios and ranges. The District is committed to maintain funding for Elementary Specials per Article 18 and will fund $1.3 million for class size relief at the elementary level. 6. Additional Performance Pay Schedule: Increases to the additional performance pay schedule will be implemented as per the normal practice with the District effective September 1 of the 2003-2004 school year. 7. If the District achieves the additional $9 million Performance Promise dollars, each teacher will receive a 1% additional, one-time, bonus based upon their placement on the 2003-2004 salary schedule.
--
Grievances Affirmative Action, 4 Definition, 11 Denial of Inservice Credits, 29 Level One, 12 Level Two, 12, 13 Level Three, 14, 15 Procedure, 12-14 Release Time, 16 Teacher Representation, 16 Time Limits, 12 Umpire, 14, 15
H
Handicapped Students, 38 Health Insurance, 103
Impasse, 8, 9 Inservice
Attendance, 28 Criteria for Credit, 27, 28 Non-probationary Teachers, 28, 29 Priority Inservice, 29 Instructional Day Definition, 3 Instructional Supplies and Equipment, 48 Instructional Media Specialist, 46, 47, 48 Insurance Programs, 103 Intraarea Reassignment, 52 Intrabuilding Reassignment, 17, 52 Intramurals, 102 Involuntary Transfers, 54, 55 Assignment, 55, 56 Conditions, 55, 56 Identification, 56-59 Notification, 57, 58 Staffing Pattern, 57, 58 Ties in Service, 61
Job Sharing, 87-89 Jury Duty and Court Subpoena Leave, 74 Just Cause, 26, 27
Leaves of Absence, 64-78 Bereavement Leave, 70 Jury Duty and Court Subpoena Leave, 74 Leave Limitations, 78, 79 Maternity/Child Care Leave, 74-76
http://jeffcoweb.jeffco.kl2.co.us/emprelations/jcea/end_index.html
Page 3 of 7 2/5/04
INDEX
Military Leave, 73 Other Leaves, 11 Personal Leave, 69 Professional Leave, 69, 70 Sabbatical Leave, 70, 71 Sick Leave, 64-69 Legal Assistance, 42 Length of Service Definition, 3 Ties, 61,83 Lesson Plans, 26 Liaison Committee, 43 Non-contact Days, 29 Library Information Specialists, 46 Lay Help, 47 Staffing, 46-48 Workday, 47 Work Year, 19 Life Insurance, 103 Long-Term Disability, 68 Lunch, 18
M
Mailboxes Use of, 46
Maintenance of Standards, 33 Maternity/Child Care Leave, 74-76 Mediation, 9,10 Meeting Attendance, 23 Memorandums of Understanding, 104,105 Mileage, 97
Recommended, 29, 30 Military Leave, 73, 74
N
Negotiation Procedures, 6-10 Non-contact Days, 29 Nondiscrimination, 4 Nonrenewal of Contract, 26, 27, 35, 36 Nonteaching Duties, 23 Non-probationary Teachers
Evaluation, 31 Inservice Requirements, 28, 29 Transfers, 34, 35 Notice of Assignment, 17 Nurses Salary Credit, 96
O
Office Occupation Coordinators Salary, 96 Work Year, 18, 19
Opening and Closing of Schools, 63 Optical Insurance, 103 Organizational/Staffing Patterns, 54-56 Orientation, 17 Outdoor Education Pay, 97
P
Page 4 of 7 2/5/04
Parental Complains Materials, 24, 25 Teachers, 27, 28
Parent-Teacher Conferences, 20 Non-contact Days, 29
Part Time Teachers Application for Openings, 23 Benefits, 21 Definition, 4 Salary, 21
Payday, 97 Personal Leave, 69 Personnel Files, 35, 36
Association Review, 15, 16 Grievances, 15,16 Pilot Programs, 50 Planning Time, 19
Part-Time Teachers, 20, 21 Pony, Use of, 46 Priority Inservice, 29 Professional Behavior, 26 Professional Conferences - Funding, 27, 28 Professional Development, 27-30 Professional Leave, 64 Program Development and Evaluation, 50 Protection of Teachers, 40 Psychologists
Salary, 96 Pupil-Teacher Ratio, 36, 37
Library Information Centers, 46, 47
Q
Questioned and Challenged Materials, 24
R
Radification Procedure, 8 Recognition of Association, 5 Record-keeling, 26
Non-contact Days, 29 Reduction in Force, 80 Reemployment, 3, 85, 86, 94 Release Time
Association, 69 Department Chairpersons, 44 Grievances, 16 Professional Conferences, 28 Task Forces, 11 Retirement Supplemental Retirement Pension Plan, 90
S
Sabbatical Leave, 71 Salary, 99
Additional Performance, 100 Application for Advancement, 95 Counselors, 19, 96 Credit for Advancement, 92-95 Cirriculum Development, 97 Department Chairpersons, 42 Differentiated Staffing, 50
Page 5 of 7 2/5/04
Doctorate, 95, 96 Educational Levels, 95 Educational Specialists, 96, 97 Experience Steps, 93 Nurses, 96 Outdoor Education, 97 Part-Time Teachers, 21 Psychologists, 96 Reemployment, 3, 85, 86, 94 Schedule, 99 Schedule Provisions, 93, 94 Social Workers, 96 Special Education Work Study, 96, 97 Specialist in Education, 96 Summer School, 97 Supervision of Student Teachers, 44 Temporary Teachers, 87 Vocational Education, 95 Warren Occupational Technical Center, 101,102 Seniority Definition, 3 Ties, 59, 60 SERS Intraarea Reassignment, 52 Sick Leave Additional Sick Leave, 67 Extended Sick Leave, 67 Long-Term Disability, 68 Part-Time Teachers, 21 Summer School, 31 Site-Based Variances, 90 Social Workers, Salary, 96 Special Education Work Study Salary, 96, 97 Staffing Patterns, 39, 57 Student Discipline and Teacher Protection, 40 Student Teachers, 44 Substitute Teacher Definition, 4 Successor Agreement, 6 Summer School, 31 Salary, 97 Sick Leave, 31 Supplies and Equipment, 48 Suspension of Students, 41
Task Forces, 10 Teacher Exchange, 60, 61 Temporary Contracts, 86 Transfers, 52-64
Binary file (standard input) matches
