=== HEALTHCARE EXTRACTION: CBA_02 ===
Source: C:/Users/zachary.parolin/INETInequality Dropbox/INET Inequality Team/Projects/LLMs & Inequality/1_CBAs/Cornell Archive/Cornell-DoL/8102ABBYY.pdf
Total document lines: 11911
Extracted healthcare lines: 1683
===========================================

261

HEALTH BENEFITS - ACTIVE EMPLOYEES
iii
TABLE OF CONTENTS
MEDICAL AND DENTAL EXPENSE PLAN BENEFITS
263
ACTIVE HEALTH BENEFITS
264
DENTAL PLAN: REASONABLE AND CUSTOMARY (R&C)
268
POSTRETIREMENT HEALTH BENEFITS
POSTRETIREMENT MEDICAL AND DENTAL BENEFITS
269
RETIREE HEALTH BENEFITS ACT OF 2005
277
287
SAVINGS PLAN
LONG TERM SAVINGS AND SECURITY PLAN
292
FINANCIAL COUNSELING SERVICES
294
OTHER BENEFITS
VACATIONS
295
EXCUSED WORK DAYS
296
DOMESTIC PARTNER BENEFIT COVERAGE
297
MILITARY LEAVES OF ABSENCE - MODIFICATIONS
298
MILITARY LEAVES OF ABSENCE
299
BENEFIT PLANS AND PROGRAMS
303
EDUCATION AND TRAINING
--
327
PRESCRIPTION DRUG PROGRAM EDUCATION
ATTACHMENTS
328
MANAGED CARE PLAN EDUCATION
ATTACHMENT 6
329
FUNDS FOR THE ALLIANCE/ETOP DISTRIBUTION PROGRAM (FAED)
ADMINISTRATION
ATTACHMENT 7
331
MANAGEMENT PERFORMING BARGAINING UNIT WORK DISPUTE
RESOLUTION PROCEDURE
ATTACHMENT 8.1
337
NEW RECOGNITION AWARD PROGRAMS
ATTACHMENT 9
--
Pittsburgh Local No. 13591 Southern California Local No. 9590 Southwestern Local No. 6290 Washington Local No. 2390
(f) "Union" means both the National and the Locals.
(g) "Union Representative" means a person elected or appointed in a duly authorized manner as a representative or agent of the National, the Local, or both.
<h) "Employee" means communication equipment worker, for whom the National is recognized as exclusive bargaining representative, except for other specialized workers temporarily hired by the Company.
(i) "7-Day Coverage Employee" means an Employee whose Scheduled Weekly Tour involves special or rotating Scheduled Daily Tours which frequently include working on calendar Saturdays and/or Sundays, and who works on a 7-Oay Coverage Job.
(j) "7-Day Coverage Job" means a job which, because of the nature of the work or the demands of the business, regularly requires operations on all seven (7) days of the Workweek.
(k) 'Term of Employment" - A period of credited employment as computed by the Company under the Pension Plan.
(I) The terms "Layoff' or "Laid-Off shall cover a termination of employment arising out of a reduction in the force due to lack of work.
(m) "Standard Rate" - A rate of pay assigned to an Employee based on the Employee's Occupational Job Classification.
(n) "Adjusted Rate" - An Employee's total rate, resulting from the sum of his or her Standard Rate and any applicable wage protection allowance.
(o) "Nonscheduled Day" - A day outside the Scheduled Weekly Tour.
(p) "Installation Service" means the time an Employee has been in the Installation Field Forces of the Company, beginning with the date the Employee was placed on the Installation Field Forces' payroll and adjusted for any period of wage credit given for prior experience, for absences of sixty (60) consecutive calendar days or more because of accident or sickness, and for absences of thirty (30) consecutive calendar days or more for reasons such as lay-off, personal leaves of absence (including leaves of absence for Union business) and other separations from the payroll.
3
Article 1 2 Generic Terms
The use of the masculine or feminine gender or titles in this and any other agreement between the Company and the Union shall be construed as including both genders and not as a sex limitation unless the agreement clearty requires a different construction.
4
Article 2
ARTICLE 2 - TERMINATION OF EXISTING AGREEMENTS All contracts and agreements previously entered into are hereby terminated except those set forth below, which continue in effect according to their terms. The parties agree and understand that the name "Lucent Technologies" shall be substituted for the name "AT&T and that the term "Company" means Lucent in the agreements that follow:
Memorandum of Understanding dated May 28.1989 regarding the Transfer of Employees to AT&T Company Organizations.
Memorandum of Understanding dated May 31, 1992 regarding the Safety Advisory Committee.
Memorandum of Understanding dated May 31, 1992 regarding the Mode of Operation Agreement.
Memorandum of Understanding dated May 31,1992 regarding the Agreement not to Permanently Transfer Union Representatives and Officers.
Memorandum of Understanding dated May 31, 1992 regarding the Area Defined for Article 13, Paragraph 2.92 Application.
Memorandum of Understanding regarding the Transporting of Tools and Materials.
Memorandum of Understanding regarding the Understanding Regarding Checking Out of Motel on Weekends.
Letter dated December 1,1966 regarding Rotation on Temporary Transfers.
Letter dated September 16, 1993 regarding Resolution of Medical Disagreements.
Memorandum of Understanding dated May 28, 1995 regarding the Electronic Surveillance and Alarm Control (ESAC) Center.
Memorandum of Understanding dated May 28, 1995 regarding Alternate Work Schedule Trials.
5
Memorandum of Understanding dated May 28, 1995 regarding Maintenance Point of Presence.
Letter dated May 28, 1995 regarding the Skill Review and Reassignment Process.
Agreement entitled Recognition Programs.
Memorandum of Understanding dated May 31. 1998 regarding Change in Computation Point.
Memorandum of Understanding dated May 31, 1998 regarding Dues Deductions from National Lump Sum Settlements.
Memorandum of Understanding dated May 31, 1998 regarding Due Deductions While on International Assignment.
Letter dated May 31,1998 regarding Hiring Bonus.
Memorandum of Understanding dated May 31, 1998 regarding Home Owner's Mortgage Allowance Plan.
Memorandum of Understanding dated May 31, 1998 regarding Permanent Transfers for Skill.
--
(4) with eligibility to Sickness Disability Benefits under and pursuant to the Sickness and Accident Disability Benefit Plan for Occupational Employees beginning on the eighth (8th) calendar day following the expiration date of the Leave of Absence;
(5) with eligibility to Sickness Death Benefits and pension under and pursuant to the Pension Plan;
(6) with eligibility to continued insurance under and pursuant to the Group Life Insurance Plan;
(7) with eligibility to continue participation in the Supplementary Life Insurance Plan;
(8) with eligibility to continue coverage under and pursuant to the Dental Expense Plan for Active Employees by the Employee's paying one hundred percent (100%) of the premium;
(9) without eligibility to continued coverage under the Long Term Disability Plan for Occupational Employees;
(10) with eligibility for coverage under and pursuant to the Medical Expense Plan for Occupational Employees (MEP);
(11) with eligibility for coverage under and pursuant to the Vision Care Plan, by the Employee's paying one hundred percent (100%) of the premium.
(12) shall be eligible to participate in the Lucent Technologies Inc. Lucent Service Anniversary Award on the same terms and conditions as active Employees.
(13) The annual amount of basic life insurance which the company provides to Employees who are actively at work on union business while on a union Leave of Absence will be determined based on the amount of the Employee's current pay.
(14) Employees who are actively at work on union business while on a union Leave of Absence may purchase an amount of supplementary life insurance under the Lucent Technologies Inc. Supplementary Life Insurance Plan that will be determined based on the amount of the Employee's current pay.
(15) An Employee on a union Leave of Absence shall be able to make fund exchanges among his or her accounts in the Lucent Technologies Inc. Long Term Savings and Security Plan in the same manner and with the same frequency as participants who are active Employees of the company.
9 Consideration Following Leaves of Absence
16
Article 5
(a) An Employee's Term of Employment will be broken if the Employee fails to return to work on or before the day following the expiration date of such a Leave of Absence except in case prior arrangements for extension have been completed. Such Leaves of Absence may be terminated prior to the expiration date if the Employee gives the Manager ten (10) days' prior written notice of intention to return to work and returns to work on the date specified. Notice of intention to return to work of a Union Representative shall include assurance that the provisions of Paragraph 5(a)(1), above, will be met as described in Paragraph 6(c), above.
(b) Upon return from a Leave of Absence for Union business an Employee shall be reinstated provided, however, that following the Employee's reinstatement he or she shall be subject to the provisions of Article 20, relating to termination of service due to lack of work.
(c) Upon reinstatement from a Leave of Absence, the Employee's Standard Rate shall be the rate in effect prior to the Leave of Absence, adjusted by any. applicable change in wage levels made during the Leave of Absence.
(d) No physical or other examination shall be required as a requisite of reinstatement, except where the Company finds that an obvious physical or mental condition exists which requires medical advice regarding job placement or fitness for work, but this shall not limit or prejudice any existing rights under the Benefit Plan.
17
Article 6
--
(2) Employees granted Leaves of Absence (Special Leave, Sickness Leave, Disability Leave, and Personal Leave of Absence) during the period of the Leaves of Absence and thereafter, if the grievance is presented not later than thirty (30) days after the termination of the Leave of Absence.
(f) If the National and the Company fail to settle by negotiation any grievance arising with respect to the interpretation of this contract, or the performance of any obligation hereunder, such grievance may be subject to arbitration in accordance with Article 8 of this contract as the final step in the settlement thereof.
2 Any individual Employee or group of Employees shall have the right at any time to present grievances to the Company and to have such grievances adjusted without the intervention of the Union, as long as the adjustment of such grievances is not inconsistent with the terms of this contract and provided that the Union has been given opportunity to be present at such adjustment.
20
Article 8
--
7 Information to be Furnished Prospective Employees The Company agrees to inform all accepted applicants for employment as communication equipment workers that (a) the Communications Workers of America represents the Employees doing the work to which they are to be assigned, (b) wages and working conditions are a matter of agreement between the Union and the Company, and (c) a copy of the contract is available on the job or can be obtained from the Job Steward or Representative.
8 Payment For Joint Union - Management Activities Employees who are involved in joint Union-Management business may request that their reasonable time and expenses while participating in such activities be paid by the Company. If approved in advance, these Employees will be paid for time lost while participating in such activities during their Scheduled Weekly Tour. This includes any associated travel time during the Employee's Scheduled Weekly Tour. Hours paid while engaged in such joint activities will be considered as time worked. In addition, such Employees will be reimbursed for reasonable travel and board and lodging expenses which ' are directly related to their participation in these activities.
9 Union Orientation For New Employees The Company and the Union agree that the Union will have the opportunity to meet with newly hired and transferred Employees as part of the overall orientation for the purpose of furnishing them with information about the Union. The Union's segment of this process will be limited to a maximum of sixty (60) minutes. Time spent during the Union Representative's Scheduled Daily Tour will be paid as time worked. In addition, the Company also agrees to introduce Employees permanently transferring into a different work group to the local Union representative assigned to that area.
24
Article 9 10 Mutual Respect
The Company and the Union recognize that it is in the best interest of both parties, the Employees and the public that all dealings between them continue to be characterized by mutual respect. To insure that this relationship continues and improves, the Company and Ihe Union and their respective representatives at all levels will apply the terms of this contract fairly in accord with its intent and meaning and consistent with the Union's status as exclusive bargaining representative of all Employees in the unit. Each party shall bring to the attention of all Employees in the unit, including new hires, their purpose to conduct themselves in a spirit of responsibility and respect and the measures they agreed upon to insure adherence to this purpose.
25
Article 10
ARTICLE 10 - SCHEDULED TOURS. TOUR CHANGES AND RELIEF PERIODS
1. The Workweek of the Company consists of seven (7) consecutive calendar days beginning with Sunday, except that for Employees on tours which start less than four (4) hours before Saturday midnight and extend into Sunday, the Workweek shall be considered as beginning with the start of such tours.
2. Scheduled Tours (a) Scheduled Daily Tours The hours in a day an Employee is scheduled to work, excluding any unpaid meal or overtime periods. An entire tour which begins four (4) hours or less before midnight shall be considered to be a tour on the following calendar day. (b) Scheduled Weekly Tours (1) The Scheduled Weekly Tour for other than a 7-Day Coverage Employee shall consist of five (5) tours of duty (Scheduled Daily Tours), from Monday through Friday, including the Friday night tour which extends into Saturday when the Employee was not scheduled to work the previous Sunday night tour extending into Monday. (2) The Scheduled Weekly Tour for a 7-Day Coverage Employee shall be arranged by the Company on any days within the Workweek, frequently including Saturdays and/or Sundays, (c) Day Tour The standard day tour schedule shall start at 8:00 A.M. and stop at 12:00 M, and start at 1:00 P.M. and stop at 5:00 P.M. but this day tour schedule may be varied by the Company to meet local conditions except that all of the eight (8) scheduled hours shall fall between 6:00 A.M. and 6:00 P.M. The Company shall notify the Union when a schedule other than 8:00 A.M. to 12:00 M, and 1:00 P.M. to 5:00 P.M. is established or changed in which case local negotiations shall take place as outlined-in Paragraph 2(e)(1), when requested by the Union.
26
(d) Night Tour A night tour shall be a period of work in which all or any part of the hours of the Employee's Scheduled Daily Tour falls between the hours of 6:00 P.M. and 6:00 A.M. The scheduled starting and stopping time, for the night tour shall be determined by the Company after consideration of such factors as job requirements and transportation facilities. Local negotiations shall take place as outlined in Paragraph 2(e)(1), when requested by the Union.
(e) Negotiations on Scheduled Tours (1) The matter shall first be discussed by the Job Steward and the Supervisor or the Representative and the Operations Area Manager. Where a mutually satisfactory schedule is not readily established by such discussion, the matter shall be referred to the Local President and the Operations Director for negotiation. (2) The schedule established by the Company shall remain in effect during such negotiations.
Split or Change in Tour (a) An Employee whose tour has been changed (day tour to night tour or
vice versa) or split (the Scheduled Daily Tour of eight (8) hours is not worked consecutively other than for usual meal period s) during the current Workweek, shall be paid an Expense Allowance of $4.00. (b) When, as a result of a split or changed tour, an Employee would work less hours then he or she would have worked had there been no split or change in tour, such Employee shall be allowed to make up such deficiency for the Scheduled Tour. Scheduled overtime hours may be made up when job conditions permit. Early Start Allowance (a) When, during the Workweek, an Employee is required to change his or her Scheduled Daily Tour to begin earlier than his or her prior Scheduled Daily Tour, such Employee shall receive an Early Start Allowance. (1) For each full or partial hour difference of such early start, the
Employee shall receive an amount equal to fifty percent (50%) of the Employee's Adjusted Rate.
27
5 Change in Starting Time When a job condition requires that one or several Employees on a day tour be scheduled to report one hour or more before the majority of Employees on that tour on one or several days in the week, such Employees shall be paid an expense allowance of $3.00 for each day on which Employee so reports. except that on a day tour with four (4) Employees or less, such an allowance will be paid to all Employees so scheduled. Such allowance shall not be paid (a) where the earlier starting time is for the convenience or at the request of the Employee, (b) when the Employee is scheduled in advance to report at the earlier hour for all days (Monday to Friday) in the week, or <c) when the earlier starting time is due to a Call-In.
6 Sunday Start Allowance When an Employee working other than a 7-Day Coverage Job is required to begin his or her first Scheduled Daily Tour between 8 P.M. Sunday and Sunday Midnight, such Employee shall receive a Sunday Start Allowance. (a) For each full or partial one half hour prior to Midnight, the Employee shall receive an amount equal to fifty percent (50%) of the Employee's Adjusted Rate.
7 Job Training Training of any Employee required by the Company shall be performed during the hours scheduled by the Company for such training and such time considered as authorized time worked.
8 Relief Periods Relief periods (suspension of work or absence from the Employee's assigned duties) not to exceed fifteen (15) minutes in each half of the Scheduled Daily Tour and in each four-hour period of work in excess of the Scheduled Daily Tour shall be granted by job supervision at all Job Locations. Relief periods may be staggered by job supervision for Employees or groups of Employees where job conditions make such action desirable.
28
Article 11
ARTICLE 11 -WORK IN EXCESS OF SCHEDULED TOURS
1 General (a) It is recognized by both parties that the needs of the business may require work in excess of Scheduled Tours and that the jobs involved must be adequately manned by qualified Employees working on an overtime basis.
(b) When, in the judgment of the Company, work in excess of Scheduled Tours is necessary, the Employees involved shall be given at least twenty-four (24) hours' notice unless unknown or unforeseen conditions prevent the Company from giving such notice, and the Union shall be notified in advance as follows:
(1) When overtime work involves a Job Location, the Job Steward involved shall be notified.
(2) When overtime involves several Job Locations which are under the jurisdiction of a Representative, the Representative shall be notified instead of the Job Steward. If the Union organization does not provide such contacts, the individual Job Stewards or Local President shall be notified.
(3) When overtime is expected to be general throughout the Area, the Local President shall be notified.
(c) The amount of overtime and the schedule for working such overtime will be established by the Company. However, the schedule or general pattern for the working of overtime, except in the case of non-recurring overtime in effect for one (1) week or less, shall, upon request of the Union, become a matter for negotiations as follows: (1) The matter shall first be discussed by the Job Steward and the Supervisor or the Representative and the Operations Area Manager. Where a mutually satisfactory schedule is not readily established by such discussion, the matter shall be referred to the Local President and the Operations Director for negotiation.
(2) The schedule established by the Company shall remain in effect during such negotiations.
(d) For 7-Day Coverage Employees. Saturday and Sunday as used in this Article shall mean the Employees' Days in Lieu of Saturday and Sunday, respectively, defined as follows:
29
--
Jackson, Ml Kalamazoo, Ml Kansas City, MO Lakeport, CA Las Vegas, NV Little Rock, AR Marysville, CA Med ford, OR Minn-St. Paul, MN Napa. CA New Castle, PA New Orleans, LA Newport News, VA Norfolk, VA Oklahoma City, OK Olympia, WA Port Huron, Ml Portland, OR Redding, CA Reno. NV
Richmond, VA Santa Cruz, CA Santa Rosa, CA Sacramento, CA Salem, OR Salinas, CA Salt Lake City, UT San Antonio, TX San Luis Obispo, CA St. Louis, MO Stockton, CA Scranton. PA Spokane. WA Topeka. KS Tulsa, OK Ukiah, CA Vancouver, WA Wheeling, WV Williamsport, PA Yakima, WA
"Except that Wage Schedule 1A or 2, respectively as specified thereunder, applies to such Employee hired at other than such Base Location and not yet transferred to the Base Location on a Permanent Transfer.
50
Article 12
EFFECTIVE MAY 29, 2005
WAGE SCHEDULE 2B
Step ACST Step
1
(8.78
2
19.38
$10.02
$10.70
111.44
6
$12.22
7
$13.05 1
--
Article 13
Location and where there is a maintenance service opportunity requiring a dedicated on-site technician.
2 General
(a) The Company and the Union agree that the character of installation work makes it necessary for an Employee to move to and from Job Locations and Work Locations. The Company will effect such a move by a Local Assignment, a Temporary Transfer or a Permanent Transfer.
(b) The Company shall designate a Base Location for each Employee. An Employee shall not be eligible to any per diem allowance at the location in which he or she was hired, until the Employee has been transferred to a Base Location on a Permanent Transfer.
(c) The Company shall not specify the mode of travel to be used by an Employee on a Local Assignment or Transfer, except as follows:
(1) The Company may furnish transportation when it determines that such transportation is appropriate for travel on a Local Assignment or transfer, and in such event Employees may be assigned to drive or to travel as passengers in a Company-provided vehicle.
(2) The Company may schedule travel via common carrier, including airplane, on a Permanent Transfer, or on a Temporary Transfer as provided in Paragraphs 4(a)(2) and 4(b).
(d) When an Employee uses his or her motor vehicle in connection with a Local Assignment or a transfer, such use shall in no case be considered either as authorized or required by the Company. However, in the case of a Permanent Transfer, Paragraph 5(a)(2) (travel time) and Paragraph 5(b)(2) (travel expense) shall apply when an Employee uses his or her automobile under the conditions stated in said paragraphs.
(e) The Company will endeavor to schedule travel on transfers during the day tour of the Scheduled Weekly Tour in effect at the Job Location from which the Employee is transferred, except when sleeping accommodations are provided for overnight travel via common carrier. When travel is scheduled via common carrier, departure and arrival time will be designated.
(0 An Employee shall be given at least forty-five (45) days advance notice of a Permanent Transfer. Unless unknown or unforeseen conditions prevent the Company from giving such notice, an Employee shall be given at least seven (7) days advance notice of a Temporary Transfer to a Work Location sixty five (65) road miles or more from the Employee's Applicable Computation Point; and notification prior to the end of the Employee's tour on the work day preceding a Local Assignment.
78
(g) Multiple Computation Points will be established with respect to the following Base Locations: Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas, Detroit, Houston, Indianapolis, Kansas City, Los Angeles, Newark, New York, MinneapolisSt. Paul, Philadelphia, Phoenix, St. Louis, San Antonio, San Diego, San Francisco-East Bay, and Seattle. For the purpose of computing transportation expense and daily miscellaneous allowance on Local Assignments and transportation expense and travel time allowances on Temporary Transfers, the Computation Point designated for an Employee at such Base Locations shall be that Computation Point previously designated for the Employee and in effect as of 11:59 p.m. on May 30, 1998. For those Employees who may be rehired from Layoff subsequent to the effective date of this Contract, the Computation Point designated shall be that Computation Point previously designated for the Employee and in effect as of the time he or she had last been Laid-Off; except, that in the event the Employee is rehired to a Computation Point different from that from which he or she was assigned when he or she was Laid Off, the Computation Point designated shall be the Computation Point to which he or she was rehired. For those Employees who may be newly hired, rehired, or reinstated from Leave of Absence subsequent to the effective date of this Contract, the Computation Point designated shall be the one nearest the Employee's living quarters as of the time such Computation applies.
(1) For those Employees who may be Permanently Transferred during the life of this Contract, the Computation Point designated shall be the one nearest the Employee's living quarters as of the time such Computation applies.
(2) The re-designation of Employees' Computation Points due to changes in their living quarters will be considered, in accordance with seniority, only insofar as business needs penult.
(h) The Company will endeavor to assign an Employee to a Job Location as near his or her home location and as near the Employee's place of residence in the Work Location as conditions permit.
(i) In selecting Employees for Temporary Transfer, the Company will give consideration to the Employee's marital status and personal responsibilities.
(1) Employees will be selected for Permanent Transfer as follows:
(i) The Company wilt select, by inverse order of Term of Employment, Employees assigned to the Base Location from which such transfer is to be made. For purposes of this paragraph, such selections shall be made from within the following groupings of Employees:
Communications Service Installer
79
Associate Communication Services Technician
Communication Services Technician (by Communications System and No-Match)
Senior Communication Services Technician (by Communications System)
(ii) An Employee selected in accordance with (i) who has been notified of such Permanent Transfer may, prior to its effective date, elect termination of employment in lieu of the transfer. In such event the Employee will be granted a termination allowance equal to the Layoff Allowance provided in Paragraph 1 of Article 2 1 , for his or her Term of Employment as of the date employment is terminated. In no event, will the Employee receive more than $30,500 or be entitled to any rights of a laid off Employee. In addition, the Employee will, if eligible, be granted a service pension under and pursuant to the Benefit Plan.
(2) For the purposes of Paragraph 2(i)(1), one or several Base Locations will be considered as one Base Location when the distance between the applicable Computation Points of those Base Locations is less than thirty-three (33) road miles, and provided that such Base Locations are within the same Area.
(j) An Employee will not be assigned to an outlying j o b Location unless transportation or communication is available to the Employee.
(k) Except for unforeseen conditions beyond the control of the Company, an Employee will not be assigned for more than eight (8) hours to an outlying Job Location where no other personnel are assigned either by the Company or by the Customer.
(I) In connection with a Permanent Transfer, dependent means an Employee's wife or husband and children; also other members of his or her family who live with the Employee in the same establishment and are principally dependent upon him or her for support.
(m) A special condition transfer, which shall not be considered as coming within the other provisions of this article, will be made when all the following conditions exist:
(1) Employee requests that he or she be transferred to another Work Location for personal reasons.
(2) Although such a transfer would not be initiated by the Company in the normal conduct of the business, the Employee's services can be used at the Work Location to which the transfer is requested.
80
(3) The Company agrees to make the transfer and makes satisfactory arrangements with the Local representing the Employee in the Area from which transfer is requested, respecting treatment to be accorded such Employee and to notify the Local which has jurisdiction at the destination Work Location, if applicable.
(n) A transfer out of the bargaining unit or to points outside the States of the United States shall not be considered as coming under the provisions of this article.
(o) There shall be no duplication of per diem allowances, and no duplication of Local Assignment Allowances. When more than one per diem allowance, per Paragraphs 4(c)(1) and 5(c)(3), might otherwise be applicable for the same day, the Employee shall be paid only the higher of such allowances for that day. When more than one Local Assignment Transportation Expense Allowance or Daily Miscellaneous Allowance, per Paragraph 3(a), might otherwise be applicable for the same day, the Employee shall be paid only the higher of such allowances for that day.
(p) When an Employee is transferred after the beginning and before the close of the Scheduled Weekly Tour, the provisions of this article shall not be applied in such a way as to deny an Employee an opportunity to earn eight (8) hours' pay (authorized time worked plus Compensated Travel Time) during any of his or her Scheduled Daily Tours of such Scheduled Weekly Tour.
(q) When the authorized time worked at the Employee's Adjusted Rate plus Compensated Travel Time for the Workweek does not exceed forty (40) hours, Compensated Travel Time hours shall be paid for at the Employee's Adjusted Rate. When the authorized time worked plus Compensated Travel Time for the Workweek exceeds forty (40) hours, the hours in excess of forty (40) shall be paid atone and one-half (1 1/2) times the Employee's Adjusted Rate. For purposes of this Paragraph 2(q), the travel time allowance of eight (8) hours provided for in Paragraph 4(a)(2) and 4(f)(1)(iii) and sixteen (16) hours provided for in Paragraph 4(a)(3) shall be considered as authorized time worked.
(r) The Company shall select the route and shall determine the road mileage measurement for that route, for the purposes of Paragraphs 3(a), 3{b), 4(a)(1). 4(a)(2), 4(a)(5), 4(b), 4(c)(1), 4(c)(3) and 4(e)(1). and road mileage tables (such as Rand McNally Standard Highway Mileage Guide) shall be used for determining mileage, where possible.
(s) Employees will be reimbursed for toll fees, as incurred, upon presentation of receipts provided that such toll fees are reasonably related to the travel as specified in Paragraph 3(a) Local Assignments, Paragraph 4(a)(1) Temporary Transfers, and Paragraph 5(a)(2) Permanent Transfers.
81
3 Local Assignment (a) For each day worked on a Local Assignment, an Employee shall (except when Paragraph 3(b) applies) receive the applicable Dairy Transportation Expense and Daily Miscellaneous Allowances as provided in the schedule immediately below.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 4(c) below or any other references to Per Diem throughout this Contract, an Employee notified of a Local Assignment of 50 up to 65 road miles may, in lieu of the Local Assignment Daily Transportation Expense and Daily Miscellaneous Allowances, elect that lodging be provided by the Company. In such cases, the Employee will receive:
(1) Company provided lodging beginning with the day of arrival and ending with the day of departure, except: when the Local Assignment extends across a weekend(s), the Company provided lodging will be terminated on Friday unless (a) the Employee is scheduled to work on the weekend or, (b) the supervisor approves a request from the Employee that he/she be allowed to stay at the location over the weekend, and -
(2) a travel time allowance of one (1) minute per mile, which shall be scheduled during the day or night tour schedule in effect at the Job Location, and a transportation expense allowance of $.36 per mile, except: when the Local Assignment extends across a weekend (s) but is terminated on Friday, in lieu of the one (1) minute per mile and the $.36 per mile, the Employee will receive the applicable Daily Transportation Expense and Daily Miscellaneous Allowance as provided in the schedule immediately below for the round-trip to his/her Base on Friday and back to the Job Location on Monday, and
(3) the applicable Lodging Option Per Diem Allowance as set forth in Paragraph 4(c)(3) below, for each day worked or lodged at the Job Location.
Additionally, notwithstanding the foregoing, an Employee on Temporary Transfer shall not be eligible for, nor receive, the Daily Miscellaneous Allowance for zero (0) up to ten (10) road miles, effective March 2. 2003 as shown on the schedule immediately below.
82
Daily cellant llowan
oooooomooooooooooiotfimioinmmirtmirimmmmmmmmmin
<
.2 <
--
Computation Points
Mobile, AL Newport News, VA Norfolk, VA Paterson, NJ Providence Rl Richmond, VA Riverside, CA Rochester, NY Rockford, IL Sacramento, CA Salt Lake City, UT Santa Ana, CA St. Petersburg, FL Shreveport, LA Spokane, WA Springfield, MA Syracuse, NY Tacoma, WA Tallahassee, FL Tampa, FL Tucson, AZ Virginia Beach, VA Wichita, KS Youngstown, OH
Effective 3/2/03
Per Diem Allowance
Road Miles 65 Up to 150 150 and Over
$37.00 $47.25
Work Locations to Which Transferred
Category III(A|
Atlanta, GA Baltimore, MO Buffalo, NY
Chicago, IL Cincinnati, OH Cleveland, OH
94
Columbus, OH Dallas, TX Denver, CO Detroit, Ml El Paso, TX Fort Worth, TX Honolulu, HI Houston, TX Kansas City, MC Los Angeles, Cfi Louisville. KY Memphis, TN Miami, FL Milwaukee, Wl Minneapolis-St. Paul, MN Nashville, TN Newark, NJ
Distance Between Applicable
New Orleans, LA New York. NY Oklahoma City, OK Omaha, NB Philadelphia, PA Phoenix, AZ Pittsburgh, PA Portland, OR St. Louis, MO San Antonio, TX San Diego, CA San Jose, CA San Fran-Oakland, Seattle, WA Toledo, OH Tulsa, OK Washington, DC
Effective 3/2/03 Per Diem Allowance
$41.75 $51.50
(AThis allowance will also apply when the Work Location to which transferred is a city, town or village that abuts a city listed herein, and the Computation Point of such city, town or village is not more than five (5) road miles from the city limits of such listed city.
95
(2) When an Employee is absent from work, payment of the allowance per Paragraph 4(c)(1) or payment of room rent and tax plus per diem allowance per Paragraph 4(c)(3) will be made only when such absence is excused. However, when the absence is due to accident, sickness, or quarantine, such allowance will be paid only when the Employee remains at his or her Work Location.
(3) When an Employee is transferred on a Temporary Transfer, and the distance between the applicable Computation Points of his or her Work Location and his or her designated Base Location (or Hiring Location, if applicable) is 65 road miles or more, he or she may, not later than three (3) working days before the scheduled date of departure, elect to waive the applicable Per Oiem Expense Allowance otherwise payable under Paragraph 4(c)(1) and accept a lodging option in its place. Under the lodging option the Company will select and arrange for lodging accommodations for the Employee at its expense (room rent and tax only) and will pay the Employee a lodging option per diem allowance as follows:
Lodging Option Per Diem Allowance
--
2 days 3 days 5 days 7 days 10 days
Such allowance in lieu thereof will be paid at the Employee's Adjusted Rate, may be offered by Base Location and, if offered, will only be offered between October 1 and December 31 of the current year. If such an offer is made and an Employee assigned to that Base Location is working on the date of the offer but becomes disabled due to illness or injury prior to the close of the offer, he/she will be given another opportunity to accept the offer provided he/she returns to active work in that Base Location by June 1 of the subsequent year. An Employee on transfer into or out of a Base Location on the date the offer is made will be eligible to accept the allowance in lieu of vacation.
3 Computation of Vacation Pay
(a) For each day of vacation to which an Employee is eligible as determined above, he or she will be paid the following:
(1) Employee's Adjusted Rate in effect during the vacation absence multiplied by the number of hours in the Employee's Scheduled Daily Tour (not to exceed eight (8)), plus
118
Article 15
(2) Employees whose Scheduled Weekly Tour includes three (3) or more Night Tours in the week prior to the week vacation begins, will be eligible for night work bonus for such vacation.
(3) Employees who would otherwise have been scheduled to work a Night Tour on an individual vacation day will be eligible for Night Work Bonus for such vacation.
4 Employees Leaving the Company (a) When an Employee's service with the Company is terminated before the Employee has taken vacation with pay to which eligible as provided in this Article, an allowance in lieu thereof will be granted, except that: (1) An Employee granted a Leave of Absence shall be granted vacation with pay to which eligible, ordinarily before the Leave of Absence begins. (2) An Employee being retired under the Pension Plan will be granted, prior to retirement, vacation with pay to which eligible; however, when Employee (1) is retired on service pension which becomes effective immediately upon expiration or termination of Sickness Disability Benefits to which eligible, (2) is retired on disability pension, no vacation with pay or allowance in lieu thereof shall be applicable. (3) An Employee who is dismissed, other than for unsatisfactory conduct, shall be granted such allowance only at the discretion of the Company. (4) No vacation or allowance in lieu thereof shall be granted to an Employee (a) who is dismissed for unsatisfactory conduct or (b) who resigns following reinstatement from Leave of Absence or rehire unless the Employee has been on the active roll for at least three (3) months prior to such resignation.
(b) An Employee who terminates employment by resignation or termination for cause will be required to reimburse the Company for the value of the vacation days to which eligible during the current calendar year, which have been taken prior to the date the Employee's termination occurs, in excess of the schedule below.
119
Eligible Vacation Days For Employee Leaving Company During Calendar Year
Due To Resignation Or Termination for Cause
Month of Termination
Term of Employment Completed (or would have |
been completed) in the Calendar Year of the fl
Termination
||
1 -6 Years
7-14 Years
15-24 Years
25 and Over Years
January
--
(b) Pay for such absence will be based on the Employee's Adjusted Rate plus night work bonus when applicable.
3 Service as Judges and Clerks of Election
(a) An Employee appointed to serve as a judge or clerk of election within his or her Scheduled Weekly Tour will be excused for such absence, consistent with the needs of the business. When so excused, the Employee will be paid for such absence in the amount, if any, by which his or her pay for the period of absence within the Employee's Scheduled Daily Tour exceeds the compensation received for such election board service.
4 Absence due to Quarantine
(a) An Employee required to be absent due to quarantine imposed by duly constituted health authorities will be paid for such absence the amount, if any, the Employee would be paid if he or she were sick.
5 Absence due to Death in the Immediate Family
(a) An Employee shall be granted reasonable absence, defined below, because of a death in his or her immediate family with pay for such time lost from assigned Company duty, provided the Employee's Term of Employment is six (6) months or more at the time such absence begins.
(b) An Employee's immediate family shall be considered as husband, wife, son, daughter, mother, father, mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandparent,
121
Article 16
grandchild, sister or brother; also, any relative or partner residing with the Employee. (c) In determining reasonable absence, consideration shall be given to the relationship of the Employee to the deceased and the responsibility of the Employee for making funeral arrangements. However, for deaths of a husband, wife, partner, son, daughter, mother or father, a reasonable absence shall not exceed five (5) consecutive Scheduled Daily Tours.
(d) For all other immediate family members, a reasonable absence shall not exceed three (3) consecutive Scheduled Daily Tours. Because of the mobile character of the Installation Field Forces, the Company agrees that if (a) an Employee receives payment under Paragraph 5{a) above for an absence due to a death of a mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandparent, grandchild, sister or brother, or any relative residing with the Employee, which death occurs while the Employee is on a Temporary Transfer or Permanent Transfer, and (b) other than overnight or evening travel is made necessary because of such transfer, payment may also be granted for additional absence during Scheduled Daily and Weekly Tours as may be necessary by reason of such travel, not to exceed two (2) days.
(e) Pay for such absence will be based on the Employee's Adjusted Rate plus night work bonus when applicable.
(f) In the event that it is necessary for an Employee to be absent for a death in his or her immediate family, as provided in Article 16, Paragraph 5, on a day the Employee had previously scheduled as a paid vacation day, such day shall be rescheduled, provided however, that no more than a combination of three (3) Vacation days and Excused Worfc Days rescheduled in accordance with Article 25, Excused Work Days shall be rescheduled for such purposes.
6 Personal Sickness Absence up to but not including Eight (8) Consecutive Days (a) Subject to all of the other provisions of this paragraph, an Employee absent because of personal sickness for any number of consecutive days of sickness absence up to but not including eight (8), will be paid for such time lost (not to exceed eight (8) hours per day) within his or her Scheduled Daily and Weekly Tour, based on the Employee's Term of Employment on the first day of such absence, as follows:
122
Term of Employment Less than two (2) years Two (2) years but less than five (5) years
Five (5) years but less than ten (10) years
Ten (10) years or more
Basis for Payment
None
Commencing with third consecutive day of absence Commencing with second consecutive day of absence
Commencing with first day of absence
(b) For the purpose of computing consecutive days of a sickness absence, the first day of such absence will start at the time within the Employee's Scheduled Daily and Weekly Tour when he or she is first absent due to sickness disability and shall continue for a period of twenty-four (24) consecutive hours thereafter. Subsequent consecutive days of such absence will start and end at the same times on the days following within the Employee's Scheduled Weekly Tour.
(c) No sickness absence payment shall be made for any such time for which
benefits are paid under the Sickness and Accident Disability Plan, nor for
which holiday allowance is paid.
>
(d) The Company may require the Employee to furnish a physician's certificate, acceptable to the Company, snowing inability to work during the entire period of sickness absence.
(e) Pay for such absence will be based on the Employee's Adjusted Rate in effect on the first full or partial day of absence plus night work bonus when applicable.
--
Article 17
ARTICLE 17 - BENEFIT PLANS AND PROGRAMS
1 The following listed Lucent Technologies Inc. Benefit Plans and Programs or their applicable successor Plan(s) or Program(s), with all subsequent amendments, shall, in accordance with their respective terms, apply to employees in the bargaining unit: 2001 Employee Stock Purchase Plan Anticipated Disability Program Business Travel Accident Insurance Plan Child/Elder Care Reimbursement Account Plan Dental Expense Plan for Active Employees Group Life and Accident Loss Insurance Dependent Accidental Loss InsurancePlan Dependent Group Life Insurance Plan Group Life Insurance Plan Supplementary Accidental Loss Insurance Plan Supplementary Life Insurance Plan Health Care Reimbursement Account Plan Long Term Care Plan Long Term Disability Plan for Occupational Employees Long Term Savings and Security Plan Medical Expense Plan for Occupational Employees Occupational Group Legal Services Plan Pension Plan Sickness and Accident Disability Benefit Plan for Occupational Employees Vision Care Plan
2 Work and Family Program Except as provided in this Article, there shall be no negotiations during the life of this Agreement upon changes in pensions or any other subjects covered by the existing Employee Benefit Plans.
3 In the event, during the life of this Agreement, the COMPANY proposes to exercise any right provided in any of the existing Employee Benefit Plans or their successors, by taking action affecting the benefits or privileges of Employees represented by the Union, it will before doing so, notify the Union of its proposal and afford the Union a period of sixty (60) calendar days for
124
Article 17 bargaining on said proposal; provided, however, that no change may be made in the Plan which would reduce or diminish the benefits or privileges provided thereunder as they apply to Employees represented by the Union without its consent. 4 Any dispute involving the true intent and meaning of Paragraph 3 may be presented as a grievance within thirty (30) days after the matter complained of and if not resolved by the parties, it may be submitted within thirty (30) days after the final answer of the COMPANY to the arbitration procedure of this Agreement. However, nothing herein shall be constnjed to subject the Employee Benefit Plans (or their successors) or their administration or the terms of the proposed change(s) in the Plans to arbitration.
125
Article 18 ARTICLE 18 - RIGHTS OF VETERANS
The obligation of the Company under present or future legislation with respect to reinstatement and continuing employment of veterans shall, to the extent applicable, supersede and replace the provisions of this contract.
126
Article 19
ARTICLE 19 - MAINTENANCE OF WORK OPERATIONS
1 No officer, representative or member of the Union shall authorize, instigate, condone or engage in a strike, work stoppage or interruption of work operations, including absences to attend Union meetings that would have the same effect as a strike or work stoppage, during the period of this contract.
2 The Company may suspend or terminate the deduction of dues provisions of this contract for any local involved where prompt and corrective action is not taken after notice by the Company to the business agent of such Local in the event of a violation of the foregoing provisions of Paragraph 1.
Article 20
ARTICLE 20 - ADJUSTMENTS TO THE WORKING FORCE
1 The Company desires to maintain employment as near to a constant level as possible. Both parties recognize, however, that the needs of the business and its efficient operation may necessitate reassignment of personnel or the addition to, or decrease in the working force.
2 The Company shall give the National or Local involved advance notice of thirty (30) calendar days prior to the effective date of a Layoff.
3 When lack of work necessitates Layoff, Employees shall be Latd-Off in accordance with Term of Employment and by Layoff groups as set forth in the following:
(a) Employees with less than five (5) years' Term of Employment shall be first Laid-Off in inverse order of Term of Employment, except that 10% of the total number of such Employees as of the time Layoffs start may be exempt from the Layoff and retained on the roll. The Layoff group shall be the Employees assigned to a Base Location.
(b) Employees retained on the roll under the provisions of Paragraph 3(a) shall be next Laid-Off.
(c) Employees with a Term of Employment of five (5) years but less than eight (8) years shall be next Laid-Off, in inverse order of Term of Employment, except that 10% of the total number of such Employees as of the time Layoffs start may be exempt from the Layoff and retained on the roll. The Layoff group shall be the Employees assigned to a Base Location.
(d) Employees retained on the roll under the provisions of Paragraph 3(c) shall be the next Laid-Off.
(e) Employees with a Term of Employment of eight (8) years but less than ten (10) years shall be next Laid-Off, in inverse order of Term of Employment, except that 10% of the total number of such Employees as of the time Layoffs start may be exempt from Layoff and retained on the roll. The Layoff group shall be the Employees assigned to a Base Location.
(f) Employees retained on the roll under the provisions of Paragraph 3(e) shall be next Laid-Off.
(g) An Employee who, based on Term of Employment, would otherwise fall within a Layoff group set forth in Paragraph 3(a) but who, as of the effective date of the Layoff, is within one year of having his/her service bridged under the Pension Plan will be placed in a Layoff group based on the Term of Employment he or she will have at the time of such bridging but only for purposes of determining the order of Layoff. Such Employee
128
will continue to be a part of the Layoff group set forth in Paragraph 3(a) for purposes of determining "the total number of such Employees" to which the 10% exemption applies but will not be considered as having been exempt from Layoff pursuant to such paragraph.
{h) Employees with ten (10) years' or more Term of Employment shall be next Laid-Off, in inverse order of Term of Employment. The Layoff group shall be the Employees assigned to all Base Locations.
4 Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 3, it is agreed that an Employee in a particular Work Location need not be Laid-Off if the forward work load at that location indicates that the Employee of longer Term of Employment who would otherwise be transferred to that location to take the place of the Employee Laid-Off would have to be Laid-Off within a period of six (6) months.
5 In the event it should be determined that a former Employee has been LaidOff other than in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 3, the obligation of the Company shall be to rehire such Employee at the time of such determination and the Employee shall be made whole; however, lost wages will be paid for a period not to exceed nine months from the date of his or her layoff, less any amounts received by the Employee for unemployment compensation, layoff allowance payments, and interim earnings.
6 When it appears possible in meeting the needs of the customer, and practicable from the standpoint of the dispersion of the working force, to reduce work effort in a spread work movement by short timing operations below normal, the Company will advise the Local involved and suitable plans for such procedure shall be arrived at through negotiations, giving due consideration to the expected work load situation and the customers' requirements.
7 A former Employee who has been Laid-Off shall be returned to work in the inverse order of Layoff (except as provided in Paragraph 9) at the Base Location from which he or she was Laid-Off provided he or she makes himself or herself locally available to said Base Location, and provided that he or she is qualified for the work to be done, physically fit, and has not been Laid-Off for more than three (3) years.
(a) In a Multiple Computation Point Base Location, the Company may offer recall, in inverse order of Layoff at the Base Location, to a former Employee who has not been Laid Off for more than three (3) years at a Computation Point within the Multiple Computation Point Base Location other than that to which the Employee was assigned at the time of Layoff. If this occurs, and the Employee refuses to accept such recall, he or she shall continue to retain his or her recall rights until an offer is made to the Computation Point to which the Employee had been
129
--
(2) The parties may submit to the umpire prior to the hearing a written stipulation of all facts not in dispute.
(3) The hearing shall be informal without formal rules of evidence and without a transcript. However, the umpire shall be satisfied himself or herself that the evidence submitted is of a type on which he or she can rely, that the hearing is in all respects a fair one, and that all facts necessary to a fair settlement and reasonably obtainable are brought before the umpire.
(4) Within five (5) working days after the hearing, each party may submit a brief written summary of the issues raised at the hearing and arguments supporting its position. The umpire shall give his or her settlement within five (5) working days after receiving the briefs. He or she shall provide the parties a brief written statement of the reasons supporting his or her settlement.
(5) The umpire's settlement shall apply only to the instant grievance, which shall be settled thereby. It shall not constitute a precedent for other cases or grievances and may not be cited or used as a precedent in other arbitration matters between the parties unless the
Article 22
settlement or a modification thereof is adopted by the written concurrence of the representatives of each party at the final step of the grievance procedure, as provided in ARTICLE 7, GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE. (6) The time limits in 7(c)(1) and 7(c)(4) of this Paragraph may be extended by agreement of the parties or at the umpire's request, in either case only in emergency situations. Such extensions shall not circumvent the purpose of this expedited procedure. (7) In any grievance arbitrated under the provisions of this Paragraph 7, the Company shall under no circumstances be liable for back pay for more than twelve (12) months (plus any time that the processing of the grievance or arbitration was delayed at the specific request of the Company) after the date of the disciplinary action. Delays requested by the Union in which the Company concurs shall not be included in such additional time. (8) The umpire shall have no authority to add to, subtract from, or modify any provisions of this Agreement. (9) The decision of the umpire will settle the grievance, and the Company and the Union agree to abide by such decision. The compensation and expenses of the umpire and the general expenses of the arbitration shall be borne by the Company and the Union in equal parts. Each party shall bear the expense of its representatives and witnesses. (10) The time limit for requesting arbitration under this provision shall be the same as provided in Paragraph 1, of ARTICLE 8, ARBITRATION.
137
Article 23 ARTICLE 23 - DEDUCTION OF UNION DUES
1 The Company agrees to deduct Union dues and initiation fees from the wages of any Employee authorizing the Company to do so and to remit such deductions to the Union in accordance with the detailed procedure set forth in Appendix 3 attached hereto and made a part hereof.
2 The provisions of this article shall not be effective if inconsistent with the taw of the applicable State.
3 In the event of a Permanent or Special Condition Transfer of an Employee, the Company will make every reasonable effort to ensure that the correct (receiving) Union Local number will be transmitted to the National Union along with the monthly dues report.
138
Article 24
ARTICLE 24 - AGENCY SHOP* 1 Each Employee who is a member of the Union or who is obligated to tender to
the Union amounts equal to periodic dues on the effective date of this Agreement, or who later becomes a member, and all Employees entering into the bargaining unit on or after the effective date of this Agreement, shall as a condition of employment, pay or tender to the Union amounts equal to the periodic dues applicable to members, for the period from such effective date or, in the case of Employees entering into the bargaining unit after the effective date, on or after the thirtieth (30th) day after such entrance, whichever of these dates is later, until the termination of this Agreement. Each Employee who is a member of the bargaining unit on or before the effective date of this Agreement and who on the effective date of this Agreement was not required as a condition of employment to pay or tender to the Union amounts equal to the periodic dues applicable to members, shall, as a condition of employment, pay or tender to the Union amounts equal to the periodic dues applicable to members for the period beginning thirty (30) days after the effective date of this Agreement, until the termination of this Agreement. 2 The condition of employment specified above shall not apply during periods of formal separation** from the bargaining unit by any such Employee but shall reapply to such Employee on the thirtieth (30th) day following his or her return to the bargaining unit. * Where permitted by law. ** The term "formal separation" includes transfers out of the bargaining unit, removal from the payroll of the Company, and Leaves of Absence of more than one (1) month duration.
139
Article 25
ARTICLE 25 - EXCUSED WORK DAYS
1 Each full-time Employee who has a TERM OF EMPLOYMENT of six months on January 1 of the current year shall be eligible for four (4) Excused Work Days with pay. In addition, an employee will be eligible to one (1) non paid Excused Work Day each calendar year without regard to Term of Employment.
2 Employees who are not required to work on their paid Excused Work Day shall be paid for the day as if for a normal or standard day worked, including Night Work Bonus when applicable, provided they are on the active payroll of the Company on that Excused Work Day.
3 One (1) paid Excused Work Day in each calendar year may be designated by the Company for Employees in an administrative work group (as designated by the Company) or in any larger group, including the entire Company. Employees in any such group for which an Excused Work Day is designated by the Company and who are not otherwise eligible for a paid Excused Work Day shall be excused and paid for such designated day as set forth in Paragraph 1, provided they are on the active payroll of the Company on the designated Excused Work Day.
4 Employees who are on vacation or absent with pay on their paid Excused Work Day for reasons other than having observed it as an Excused Work Day shall have their paid Excused Work Day rescheduled if a vacation day would have been rescheduled under the same circumstances.
5 If Employees agree to work on their paid Excused Work Day and the Company determines that the day cannot be rescheduled, they shall be paid as applicable in accordance with the following paragraphs:
(a) Employees who agree to work before the work schedule becomes fixed shall receive one (1) day's pay as set forth in Paragraph 2 in lieu of their Excused Work Day and shall in addition be paid in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement covering work on a scheduled day of work.
(b) Time worked by an Employee on hjs or her Excused Work Day shall be considered time worked on a regularly scheduled day of work for all purposes, except as is otherwise expressly provided in this Article.
6 The Company and the Union recognize that it may be in the best interest of Employees to have the ability to take time off for brief intervals because of personal, immediate needs. Accordingly, for the term of this agreement, up to four (4) Excused Work Days (EWD)(s) may be used as follows:
(a) An Employee may designate and schedule, as applicable, four (4) EWD (s) to be used flexibly. This provision shall apply to an Employee's unpaid EWD and/or his/her paid EWD(s) which are not designated by the Company.
140
Article 25 (b) Each flexible EWD may be divided into increments of two (2) hours for an
increment, provided, however, that where the length of an Employee's scheduled daily tour is not evenly divisible by two (2), the last increment of each EWD may be less than two (2) hours. (c) An increment may be taken at any time during the vacation schedule period up to and including the actual scheduled Excused Work Day provided his/her supervisor is notified before the beginning of the tour and not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the work group has already been granted time off. In the event more than twenty five percent (25%) of the work group is scheduled off, then the time may be granted consistent with the needs of the business. (d) The time may be taken based on the Employee's personal need to take the time. (e) If there is unused time available on the day of the so-scheduled EWD, the Employee must take the remaining time on the scheduled day even if that increment is less than two (2) hours.
141
Article 26
ARTICLE 26 - COMMUNICATION SERVICES INSTALLER
The provisions of this Article 26 shall be applicable to Employees in the title of Communication Services Installer only. All provisions of CWA-24, Appendices 2 and 3, the Local Memoranda and the National Memorandum shall apply to this Article 26 as if fully restated herein, except as expressly modified, replaced or deleted by the provisions of this Article 26.
1 SCHEDULED TOURS, TOUR CHANGES AND RELIEF PERIODS The following provisions, in lieu of Article 10, apply to the employees covered under this functional article.
The Workweek of the Company consists of seven (7) consecutive calendar days beginning with Sunday, except that for Employees on tours which start less than four (4) hours before Saturday midnight and extend into Sunday, the Workweek shall be considered as beginning with the start of such tours.
Scheduled Tours
--
(c) Long Term Savings and Security Plan
(d) The following Group Life and Accidental Loss Insurance
(1) Group Life Insurance Plan
(2) Supplementary Life Insurance Plan
(3) Supplementary Accidental Loss Insurance Plan
(e) Communication Services Installers shall also have access to the Dental Expense Plan for Active Employees and the Vision Care Plan if the Employee elects to pay the premiums associated with these Plans.
(f) Communication Services Installers will not be eligible for any other benefits except as set forth above. For greater certainty, notwithstanding the fact that the term 'Term of Employment" is referred to in the Pension Plan, Communication Services Installers shall not participate in and shall not accrue benefits under the Pension Plan with respect to their employment under this Article.
8 FORCE ADJUSTMENT When lack of work necessitates Layoff, Communication Services Installers shall be laid off in inverse order of Term of Employment, by Base Location. Prior to any ACST, CST or SCST Installer being Laid Off in a base location, all Communication Services Installers shall first be Laid Off.
146
Article 26 9 LAYOFF ALLOWANCES
Not applicable to Communication Services Installers 10 LOCAL MEMORANDUMS OF UNDERSTANDING
The CWA-24 Local Memorandum(s) apply to Communication Services Installers in accordance with their terms and conditions, except where modified by this Article 26. 11 NATIONAL MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING The CWA-24 National Memorandum applies to Communication Services Installers in accordance with their ternis and conditions, except where modified by this Article 26. The following letter agreements and/or provisions of the National Memorandum of Understanding shall not apply to Communication Services Installers. (a) All provisions with respect to the Lucent Technologies Pension Plan (b) Lucent Career Transition Option Program (LCTOP) and related
provisions (c) Lucent Transfer Plan (LTP) and related provisions (d) Lucent Performance Plan (e) Tuition Assistance (f) Work and Family Programs (g) Academic Award Program (h) Funds for Alliance/ETOP Distribution Program (FAED) (i) Employee Resource Center
147
Minimum
Maximum Minimum
Attachment 1
Communication Service Installer (CSI)
Step 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
e
9 10 11 12 13
Effective 11/1/2004
SI 0.00 $10.31 S1054 S 10.97 S11.32 (11.67 S 12.04 S 12.42 S12.B1 (1321 (13.63 $14.06 (14.50
Effective
SV29/200S $10.10 $10.43 S10.77 S11.12 S11.49 $11.36
S 12.25 $12.65 $1307 S13 49 S 13.93
$14.39 $14.86
6/28/2006 $10.20 $10.55 S10.90 S11.28 $11.66 $12.05 $12.46 512.69 $13.32 S13.7B $14 25 (14.73 $15.23
Effective 6/27/2007
$10.30 $10.66 $1103 $11.42 S11.82 $1224 $1266 $13.11 $1357 $1404 $1453 (15.04 $15.57
Step 1 2 3 4 6
--
Hagerstown, MD Salisbury, MD
Richmond, VA Roanoke, VA
Wheeling, WV
District of Columbia
Delaware
Florida Georgia
Miami, FL Orlando, FL Panama City, FL Pensacola, FL Tallahassee, FL Tampa, FL West Palm Beach, FL
Gainesville. GA Hazlehurst, GA Macon, GA Rome, GA Savannah, GA Thomasville. GA Waycross, GA
166
Asheville, NC Burlington, NC Charlotte, NC Gastonia, NC Goldsboro, NC Greensboro, NC
Anderson, SC Charleston, SC Columbia, SC
Anniston, AL Birmingham. AL Brewton, AL Decatur, AL Gadsden, AL Huntsville, AL Jasper, AL
Athens, TN Chattanooga, TN Columbia, TN
Bowling Green, KY Danville, KY Frankfort, KY Louisville, KY
Alexandria, LA Baton Rouge, LA Hammond, LA Houma, LA Lafayette, LA Lake Charles, LA
Appendix 2
North Carolina South Carolina
Alabama Tennessee
Kentucky Louisiana
Laurinburg, NC Lenoir, NC Raleigh, NC Shelby. NC Wilmington, NC Winston-Salem, NC
Florence, SC Greenville, SC Spartanburg, SC
Mobile. AL Montgomery, AL Opelika, AL Selma, AL Sheffield, AL Tuscaloosa, AL
Jackson, TN Knoxville, TN Memphis TN Nashville, TN
Owensboro, KY Paducah. KY Paintsville, KY Winchester, KY
Minden, LA Monroe, LA Natchitoches, LA New Orleans, LA Ruston, LA Shreveport, LA
167
Appendix 2
Columbus, MS Greenwood, MS Gulfport, MS Hattiesburg, MS
CENTRAL AREA
Ann Arbor, Ml Battle Creek, Ml Benton Harbor, Ml Cadillac, Ml Detroit, Ml Escanaba, Ml Flint, Ml Grand Rapids, Ml Houghton, Ml Iron Mountain, Ml
Akron, Oh Canton, OH Cincinnati, OH Cleveland, OH
--
(b) Deductions shall begin during the first (1st) payroll period in the month following receipt of a newly executed "Payroll Deduction Authorization" by the Lucent Technologies Inc. Payroll Office, and provided there is sufficient pay available to cover the amount authorized after the following deductions have been made:
those required by law, and,
those authorized for Group Life Insurance and Medical Expense Plan premiums.
(c) If the scheduled deduction for amounts equal to Union dues cannot be made in the period(s) specified above, such deductions(s) will be made
172
Appendix 3
during the consecutive payroll periods ending no later than the last payroll period in the following month.
(d) "Payroll Deduction Authorizations" shall be suspended when an Employee:
is transferred to a job that is not represented by the Communications Workers of America,
goes on Leave of Absence for more than (1) month; or,
is removed from the payroll of Lucent Technologies Inc.
(e) "Payroll Deduction Authorizations" suspended in accordance with Paragraph 1(d) shall be reactivated on the first (1st) payroll period following the return of an Employee to a job that is represented by the Union.
(0 Except as provided in Paragraphl(d), "Payroll Deduction Authorizations" shall remain in effect when an individual is employed by Lucent Technologies Inc. unless canceled by such Employee. Such cancellation must be individually sent to the Lucent Technologies Inc. Payroll Office and to the Union Local by Certified Mail during the fourteen (14) day period prior to the anniversary date or termination date of the current or subsequent Collective Bargaining Agreement.
(g) In the event an Employee who cancels a "Payroll Deduction Authorization," in accordance with the above paragraph, wishes to resume deductions for amounts equal to Union Dues, such employee shall be obligated to complete a new "Payroll Deduction Authorization."
(h) By written certification, the Union shall keep Lucent Technologies Inc. currently informed of the amount of regular monthly dues lawfully in effect in each Local having jurisdiction over any Employees in the bargaining unit. Such amount or formula shall be uniform for all Employees represented by the Local.
(i) Certifications which change the amounts equal to Union dues for any Local will be accepted by the Company no more than three (3) times in any cajendar year.
(j) Amounts deducted in accordance with the above provisions shall be remitted to the Union no later than the end of the second (2nd) week following the months during which the deductions were made, the COMPANY shall deliver to the UNION a check for the amount due. payable to the UNION, accompanied by a positive tape recording showing the names of Employees from whose pay:
Regular deductions have been made.
173
Appendix 3 No deduction has been made because of cancellation of authorization. No deduction has been made because of revocation of authorization. No deduction has been made because of insufficient earnings in this pay period. Deduction has been made for a prior month.
(k) It is recognized that the suspension, reactivation and cancellation procedures for "Payroll Deduction Authorizations" contained herein shall be observed for all Employees in the bargaining unit on the effective date of this Collective Bargaining Agreement.
(I) It is understood that Lucent Technologies Inc. assumes no responsibility for the consequences of any failure to make such deduction or mistakes in connection therewith and that neither Lucent Technologies Inc. nor any of its officers, agents or employees shall in any way be held liable or responsible for any loss.
174
Social
EXHIBIT A PAYROLL DEDUCTION AUTHORIZATION
-
Name
Security Number
Last
--
Baltimore, MD Charleston. VW Clarksburg. WV Frederick, MD Hagerstown, MD Lynchburg, VA Newport News, VA
Norfolk, VA Richmond, VA Roanoke, VA Salisbury, MD Washington, DC Wheeling, WV
186
Local Memorandum
Bend, OR Bremerton, WA Eugene, OR Medford, OR Olympia, WA Pendleton, OR
Appleton, Wl Eau Claire, Wl Fond du Lac, Wl Green Bay, Wl
Portland, OR Salem, OR Seattle, WA Spokane, WA Vancouver, WA Yakima, WA
Wisconsin Area
Madison, Wl Milwaukee, Wl Stevens Pt., Wl Watertown, Wl
AGREED:
FOR THE UNION
By: Is/ R. G. Richhart Bargaining Chairman
APPROVED:
By: /s/J. E. Irvine Vice President, Communications Workers of America
FOR THE COMPANY
By: /s/J. W. Roth Labor Relations Manager Installation
189
CHANGE IN COMPUTATION POINT MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
This will confirm our discussions during bargaining in which we agreed that notwithstanding the provisions of Article 13, Local Assignments and Transfers, Paragraph 2(g). Employees on the Company's active roll on both March 1, 2003 and the effective date of Contract CWA-23 shall, at their request once during the life of the Contract, have their Computation Point re-designated as a result of a bona fide change in living quarters.
AGREED: FOR THE UNION By: /s/ R. G. Richhart Bargaining Chairman
APPROVED: By: /s/R. V. Maly Vice President Communications Workers of America
By: /s/ S. J. Muscat Director Workforce Relations
190
CHECKING OUT OF MOTEL ON WEEKENDS MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
--
3 The Company shall continue to recognize a properly executed authorization submitted by an Installer until (a) the authorization is revoked by the Installer as provided in Paragraph 2; (b) the Installer is transferred from the Installation Field forces of Lucent Technologies Inc. GSP, the business unit to which this memorandum relates; (c) the employment of the Installer is terminated for any reason, including but not limited to Leaves of Absence with or without pay; or (d) the deduction of dues provisions of the collective bargaining agreement are terminated or suspended pursuant to Article 19, Paragraph 2.
4 If the Payroll Deduction Authorization (Exhibit 1) is not properly filled out or the name shown cannot be reconciled with Company records, it will be relumed to the Local Union.
5 The Communications Workers of America (CWA) recognizes that each Union Local accepts the responsibility for keeping the CWA National Office apprised of the deduction cards that they receive in accordance with this memorandum in order for the National Office to be able to apportion the Local's share of the dues to the appropriate Local.
197
EXHIBIT 1 - PAYROLL DEDUCTION AUTHORIZATION FOR INSTALLERS ON INTERNATIONAL ASSIGNMENTS
Social Security Number
Name Last
First Middle Initial
I hereby authorize Lucent Technologies Inc. (Lucent) to deduct from my salary or wages, sickness or disability payments, or other benefit payments or vacation payments, an amount equal to 1.3% of the Standard Rate of pay from each check. If for any reason Lucent Technologies Inc. fails or is unable to make a deduction, I authorize Lucent to make such deduction in a subsequent payroll period.
I recognize that I am under no legal obligation to pay Union dues, as my International assignment is outside of the bargaining unit and I acknowledge that I am not covered by, and have no rights under the Collective Bargaining Agreement while t am outside of the bargaining unit. I also acknowledge that this payroll deduction authorization is entirely voluntary on my part, and neither Lucent not the Communications Workers of America have attempted to influence my decision in any way.
This authorization shall remain in effect when I am employed by Lucent on an International assignment unless canceled by me. Such cancellation must be individually sent to my Lucent Technologies Inc. Payroll Office and the Union Local by Certified Mail during the fourteen (14) day period prior to the anniversary date or termination date of the current or subsequent Collective Bargaining Agreement, and shall be effective on the first payroll period in the following month.
Amounts deducted in accordance with this authorization are not deductible as charitable contributions for federal income tax purposes.
Date Employee Work Location Lucent Technologies Organization
Signature of Employee Union Local
198
ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCE AND ALARM CONTROL (ESAC) CENTER MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
This will confirm our understanding of May 28, 1995 regarding the Phoenix, Arizona Electronic Surveillance and Alarm Control (ESAC) Center and future ESAC centers.
Installation Bargaining Unit Employees will be responsible for but not limited to:
--
--
> decisions regarding further escalation of troubles and the interface with higher levels of technical support such as RTAC, Bell Labs, etc., and,
--
This Memorandum of Understanding will confirm our May 28, 1995 agreement regarding the establishment of Maintenance Points of Presence (MPOP's) to facilitate the provision of maintenance services outside of the existing Base Locations listed in CWA-21.
I Definition Article 13 of CWA-21 is amended to add the following definition:
"Maintenance Point of Presence" <MPOP): A location designated by the Company which is more than 50 miles from an existing Base Location and where there is a maintenance service opportunity requiring a dedicated onsite technician.
II Staffing . The filling of any maintenance service assignment at an MPOP designated by the Company will be according to the following process:
1 The establishment of an MPOP, as well as the determination and evaluation of the job skills, knowledge, training, and experience required for the maintenance service work functions to be performed at the MPOP, will be made solely by the Company. The Union will be given notification of the establishment of an MPOP prior to its effective date.
2 An MPOP assignment will be circulated and/or posted at the work locations within the geographic territory of the Company's Customer Team having the MPOP opening. The job information will include the job skills, knowledge, training, and experience requirements for the opening, including the minimum skills which would be considered in the event that no employee can meet all of the requirements for the position(s). The Local Union will be given copies of the MPOP job assignment and requirements.
3 Employees who wish to be considered for the MPOP job assignment(s) may volunteer for a Permanent Transfer to the applicable MPOP location.
4 The Company will evaluate the job skills, knowledge, training, and experience of volunteer candidates for the MPOP job assignment(s). The selection from volunteer candidates who are qualified for the MPOP assignment(s) shall proceed according to the following priority:
205
(a) Employees who reside within 50 miles of the MPOP computation point;
(b) Employees assigned to the Base Location nearest to the MPOP;
(c) Employees assigned to Base Locations within the same State, Area (as defined in a Memorandum of Understanding dated May 31, 1992 and printed on pages 149-153 of CWA-20), or Region, in that order, as the MPOP;
(d) Employees assigned to any Base Location nationwide provided the employee(s) can be released from their present assignment.
(e) Subject to the foregoing criteria, when the qualifications of two or more volunteer candidates are substantially equal and meet the minimum requirements for the position(s), the selection will be according to the seniority of the volunteer candidates.
5 In the event that there are no qualified volunteer candidates who meet both the minimum job qualifications for the MPOP position(s) and the geographic priority established by Paragraph A (a) through (c), above, the Company may elect to waive certain of the qualification requirements for the position(s) before seeking to staff the position(s) pursuant to Paragraph 4 (d), above. If, after this election, two (2) or more volunteer candidates possess substantially the same qualifications for the position(s), as determined solely by the Company, the selection(s) will be made according to the seniority of the volunteer candidates.
6 In the event that the Company determines that there are no volunteer candidates who are qualified for the MPOP position(s), the permanent transfer of employees having the necessary job skills, knowledge, training, or experience may be implemented pursuant to the Memorandum of Understanding between the parties regarding the Permanent Transfers to destinations requiring specific skill categories (Memorandum of Understanding-Permanent Transfers For Skills of CWA-21). It is understood that the requirement, contained in the Memorandum of Understanding referenced immediately above, to layoff employees (in the same Area or in the affected Base Location, as the case may be) as a prerequisite to invoking Permanent Transfers for Skill reasons shall not apply to Skill Permanent Transfers to an MPOP.
7 In the event that an MPOP position cannot be filled through the procedures set forth in Paragraphs 3 through 6, inclusive, the position(s) will be advertised in ATS. If the ATS process produces no candidate with the minimum qualifications for the position, as solely determined by the
206
Company, outside candidates may be hired from the geographic area in which the MPOP is located.
6 If a qualified employee is identified and selected for an MPOP position pursuant to Paragraphs 3 through 6, inclusive, the selected employee(s) will be permanently transferred to the MPOP and will receive Permanent Transfer expense treatment in accordance with contract provisions in effect at the time of the transfer.
9 The work site will become the MPOP Computation Point. Daily Miscellaneous Allowance will be provided per Article 13, Paragraph 3(a), zero (0) to five (5) miles.
10 The selected employee will maintain the wage schedule from his/her originating Base Location per Article 12, Paragraph 4(b)(2) through 4(b)(2)(iv) At the expiration of the time periods set forth in Paragraphs 4(b)(2)/4(b){2)(iv), employees assigned to an MPOP location will assume the wage schedule of the closest Base Location within 100 miles of the MPOP. If there is no Base Location within 100 miles of the MPOP, it will be assigned Wage Schedule 2.
11 Should the maintenance service requirement at an MPOP be eliminated or reduced, thereby creating a surplus situation at the MPOP, an employee with more than 10 years service will be offered an opportunity to permanently transfer to another MPOP or Base Location and receive Permanent Transfer expense treatment in accordance with the contract provisions which are in effect at the time of the transfer. Should such an employee decline the Permanent Transfer, he/she will receive treatment per Article 13, Paragraph 2(i)(1)(ii). A surplus MPOP employee with less than ten (10) years service may be laid off or permanently transferred to another MPOP or Base Location at the option of the Company in accordance with current contract provisions. Seniority will be the determining factor for Permanent Transfers out of the MPOP. Junior employees will be permanently transferred before senior employees in the same skill category and may be from any one of the following skills:
5ESS 5ESS - M Wireless Wireless - M OSS OSS - M
Data Networking Systems
Data Networking Systems - M
4ESS 4ESS-M
Power Power-M 1AESS 1AESS - M
Transmission Transmission - M Non-AT&T SW Non-AT&T SW - M
12 Force Reduction in a MPOP by layoff will be by the process in Article 20.
207
13 Notwithstanding Paragraphs 11 and 12, the Company agrees that it shall not Permanently Transfer employees from an MPOP to alleviate surplus conditions at a time when there are employees on the Company's active roll within the MPOP who have a Term of Employment of less than four (4) years.
AGREED: FOR THE UNION By: Is/ R. G. Richhart Bargaining Chairman
APPROVED: By: 1st J. E. Irvine Vice President Communications Workers of America
By: Is/ J. W. Roth Labor Relations Manager Installation
208
MODE OF OPERATIONS AGREEMENT MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
This will confirm our understanding of May 31, 1992 concerning the treatment of Employees assigned by the Company to installation work outside of Switching Systems, Toll Carrier and Radio Systems, and associated Power equipment performed in Central Offices. Such assignments would include work such as service and maintenance contracts, Installation Test Center Operations, operation support systems, central office maintenance, and customer premise equipment associated with maintenance and service.
1 The Company and Union agree that the character of the work on such assignments will make it necessary for Employees to move to and from job sites to meet customer service needs and it will generally not be possible to give notice on Local Assignment and Temporary Transfer in accordance with Article 13, Paragraph 2.6. However the Company will give as much notice as possible. It is further recognized that the demand of the customer may also require overtime and needs and conditions may arise which will prevent giving Employees notice as specified in Article 11, Paragraph 1.2.
2 Employees shall be required to wear appropriate attire in keeping with the work environment of the operations being performed. Employees on service and maintenance assignments involving direct contact with the customer may be required to wear a button-up dress shirt with a necktie, dress slacks, and dress shoes. Sport or suit type jackets may be required based on local customary business and climatic conditions. Female Employees on such assignments shall wear comparable suitable dress attire.
3 Company-provided vehicles shall ordinarily be used in the performance of such operations in accordance with provisions of Article 13, Paragraph 2.3. Notwithstanding the limitations on air travel in Article 13 Paragraph 4.12, travel by airplane may be used on temporary transfers of less than 800 road miles where, in the judgment of the Company, time, distance and customer demands so dictate.
4 The Company may require such Employees to carry paging devices during scheduled working time.
5 Employees shall exercise reasonable and responsible care with respect to Company provided vehicle, tools, and equipment.
6 To the extent consistent with business needs, the Company shall assign Employees who, in its judgment, are qualified for the work to be done in accordance with their preference for such assignments, however the Company retains the right to make selections based on its business needs.
209
7 It is agreed that the Seven Day Coverage provisions specified in Contract CWA-20 shall be limited to Employees and job assignments covered by this agreement.
In all other respects, the provisions of Contract CWA-20 will apply to Employees on such assignments.
AGREED: FOR THE UNION By: (si R. G. Richhart Bargaining Chairman
APPROVED: By:/s/J. E. Irvine Vice President, Communications Workers of America
By: isJ J.W. Roth Labor Relations Manager Installation
210
PERMANENT TRANSFERS FOR SKILL MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
This will confirm our understanding of November 1, 2004 that with respect to Article 13, LOCAL ASSIGNMENTS AND TRANSFERS, Paragraph 2(i){1)(i) selections for Permanent Transfers to destination locations requiring specific skill categories shall be made first from qualified volunteers, as determined by the Company. If it is necessary to select Employees on an involuntary basis, such selections shall be made from Communications Service Installer, Associate Communications Service technician and the following communications systems skill categories for Communication Services Technicians and Senior Communication Services Technicians:
Communication Services Technician
Senior Communication Services Technician
Electronic Surveillance Center
Maintenance Operations-
(Transmission, Power, 4ESS,
5ESS, Non-Lucent Switch, OSS
Electronic Adjunct, Wireless)
--
RECOGNITION PROGRAMS
Under this Agreement, newly created Recognition Programs will be available to occupational employees covered by the Installation, Correspondence and Report Assistant, and Operations Support Center Agreements. These Programs may provide cash, gift certificates, gifts, or other means of compensation to employees in recognition of individual or group performance. Recognizing that wages and monetary compensation provided under these programs may be considered mandatory subjects of bargaining, such programs shall be discussed by representatives of the Company and the CWA in accordance with the terms contained herein. This Agreement shall not impact practices, programs, or procedures currently in effect except as provided under "Program Termination" below.
APPROVAL
Prior to their implementation the Constructive Relationship Council (CRC) shall approve Recognition Programs that will result in equivalent compensation of more than $100 for any employee at the time he/she is recognized.
PROGRAM ELEMENTS
Programs submitted to the CRC should include the following elements: Program Objective, Accomplishment Criteria, Time Frames, Employee Eligibility, Program Structure, Submission Process, Approval Process, Award Publication, Award Presentation.
PARTICIPATION
Where such Recognition Programs are offered, all occupational employees in the group will be eligible to participate.
TAX LIABILITY
Programs must be reviewed with the Business Unit financial representative to ensure all Company and employee income tax laws and regulations are addressed.
215
PROGRAM TERMINATION
The signing parties to this Agreement may terminate any individual Recognition Program established pursuant to this Agreement, any such pre-existing Program, or this Recognition Program Agreement by giving a 45 day written notice of termination. During that 45 day period either party may initiate negotiations and. if no agreement is reached during the 45 day period, the Program or this Agreement, whichever is being negotiated, will no longer be effective and binding upon either the Company or the Union.
NON-DISCRIMINATION
In the negotiation and administration of Recognition Programs, neither the Company nor the Union shall unlawfully discriminate against any employee because of such employee's race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, handicap, sexual preference, union membership, or status as a special disabled veteran or veteran of the Vietnam era.
By: /s/ R. G. Richhart CWA Representative
By: /s/ J. W. Roth
Labor Relations Manager Installation
By: Isl Ronald J. Allen Assistant to the Vice President, Communications Workers of America
By: /$/ J. J. Breslin Labor Relations-Vice President
216
--
This will confirm our understanding of May 31, 1992, whereby it was agreed that safety is a concern to the Company and the Union. The Company and the Union mutually recognize the need for a work environment in which safe operations can be achieved in accomplishing all phases of work, and the need to promote better understanding and acceptance of the principles of safety on the part of all Employees to provide for their own safety and that of their fellow Employees, customers and the general public.
To achieve the above principles, the Company and Union agree to establish an advisory committee on safety principles at the Company headquarters level. The committee shall consist of not more than three (3} representatives each from the Company and the Union (to be appointed by the Company and the National Union respectively). This committee shall meet from time to time as required but at least three (3) times per year.
APPROVED: By: /s/ J. E. Irvine Vice President, Communications Workers of America
By: /s/ J. W. Roth Labor Relations Manager Installation
219
SCHEDULING TIME OFF MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
This will confirm our understanding of May 31, 1998, between the Company and the Union with respect to scheduling of time off.
It was agreed that any employee who cannot take his or her vacation, paid Excused Work Days (excluding Company Designated Excused Work Day other than those not observed solely due to a transfer) or Floating Holidays in a calendar year, because of reasons beyond the employee's control, may schedule such paid days in the next calendar year, provided such days are taken by July 1 of that year.
For scheduling purposes, but not for pay purposes, all time off under the provisions of this understanding shall be treated in the same manner as vacation time.
By: /s/ R. G. Richhart Bargaining Chairman
By: /s/ J. W. Roth Workforce Relations Manager Installation
220
SKILL REVIEW AND REASSIGNMENT PROCESS
May 28,1995
Mr. R. G. Richhart Bargaining Chairman Communications Workers of America Communications and Technologies 501 Third Street, Northwest Second Floor Washington, DC 20001
Dear Mr. Richhart:
This letter will reflect our understanding regarding the implementation of an annual review and reassignment process. All assignments and reassignments of personnel to approved job titles shall be made solely at the discretion of the Company, in accordance with Article 12 , Paragraph 3(a)(1) and 3(a)(3). All past practices which may have existed regarding the assignment and reassignment of personnel to approved job titles are hereby terminated and no longer operative. In their place the Company will create an Installation Resource Planning Board which will administer this process. The Board's membership will include the Customer Services Vice Presidents or their designees,
The Board will also have the authority to waive the service interval requirements when the Company's skill requirements warrant special considerations. Recommendations for reassignment to higher level job titles shall be forwarded to the Board by local management. All reassignments to higher job titles will be effective in accordance with Article 12, Paragraph 3(a)(1). Additionally, the form SD-11-1421-2 (Work Operation Codes and Skill Classification Plan Requirements) will be changed to reflect the implementation of this system.
Sincerely,
/s/ J. W. Roth Labor Relations Manager Installation
221
--
step range being granted and
has produced evidence acceptable to the Company in support of such credit consideration.
(d) Wage progression step credit granted in this situation shall be effective with the date of such determination.
(e) For the purposes of Paragraph 1(c), one or several Base Locations will be considered as one Base Location when the distance between the applicable Computation Points of those Base Locations is less than thirty-three (33) road miles, and provided that such Base Locations are within the same Area.
AGREED: FOR THE UNION
AGREED: FOR THE COMPANY
By: /s/ R. G. Riehhart Administrative Assistant to the Vice President
By: /$/ S. J. Muscat Director Workforce Relations
By: /s/ R. V. Maly Vice President Communications Workers of America
By: /s/ W. L. Schecter Vice President Workforce Relations
229
3 YEAR RECALL RIGHTS MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
This Memorandum of Understanding will reflect our agreement regarding the implementation of Article 20 paragraph 7. Effective January 01, 2003, emptoyees who are declared surplus will have recall rights of three (3) years from their date of lay off. Employees Laid-Off prior to January 01, 2003 will continue to maintain their recall rights for two (2) years from their date of layoff.
By: /s/ R. G. Richhart Administrative Assistant to the Vice President
--
OTS MAJNTENANCE CONTRACTS REQUIRING SECURITY CLEARANCE WHICH ARE IMPACTED BY A FORCE ADJUSTMENT
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
1. OTS Maintenance problem markets are defined as Base locations where the company's ability to support On-site Technical Services (OTS) maintenance customers which can be negatively affected by a Force Adjustment impacting OTS Installers with security clearance^,) that have less than ten (10) years of service.
2. Installation Installers (Core Installers) in the affected Base locations with more than 10 years service will be eligible for consideration to join the OTS organization. In order to be considered, interested Core Installers must respond to a solicitation of interest, which will be conducted by the Company and Union upon the declaration of a surplus, and be willing to submit the appropriate forms for required U.S. Government Clearance.
The number of candidates submitted for required U.S. Government Clearance may be limited by the customer. If multiple Core Installers volunteer, they will be submitted based on seniority if they are either
--
Bell Labs
Repair, Distribution and Services and Support
Operations
INSTALLATION CWA-24
INSTALLATION - CARA, CWA-24 Appendix 7
COCKEYSVtLLE CWA-24 Appendix 5
mew
NETWORK RELIABILITY CENTER CWA-24 Appendix 6
COLUMBUS - P&M
COLUMBUS - Clerical
NETWORK SOFTWARE CENTER- Trades
OKLAHOMA CITY - Clerical
244
National Memorandum
This 2004 National Memorandum of Understanding is agreed to this 31st day of October, 2004.
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA
/s/ Ralph V. Maly, Jr Vice President, CWA
Is/ Gerald Souder CWA Staff Representative
/s/ Mary Jo Sherman CWA Staff Representative
Izl Brian P. Reilty President, CWA Local 1062
l$l Chuck Mitchell President, CWA Local 7790
Isl Tom Bruhn President, CWA Local 3790
l%l Mike Klein President, CWA Local 4090
--
(2) Business Group Performance Award ("Business Group Award"), (applicable universes to be agreed upon at the National Table)
(d) The amounts of Lucent Award and Business Group Award, if earned, are based on the performance results of Lucent and the employee's applicable Business Group at the end of each fiscal year compared against business goals which are established at the beginning of each fiscal year.
(e) When the Company and/or the employee's Business Group exceeds the business goals, there is an opportunity for even greater awards.
(f) Performance Awards will be based on performance during the Lucent fiscal year periods hereafter referred to as "Performance Years."
(1) The first such Performance Year will be October 1, 2 0 0 4 September 30, 2005.
2 Lucent Performance Award
(a) The Lucent Award for eligible Occupational Employees (as defined below) will be based on overall Lucent-wide performance against fiscal business goals.
253
(b) The performance measure(s) for the Lucent Award will be the same measure(s) used for the Team Award under the Lucent Annual Incentive Plan for U. S. based Management Employees or if this Plan is materially changed or discontinued, as mutually agreed to by the Union(s) and the Company.
(c) Eligible employees will receive a lump sum payment as follows:
Performance Year 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
Minimum Amount $250 $250 $250 $250 $250 $250 $250 $250
Amount at Target $586 $601 $614 $627 $639 $652 $665 $678
(d) Such amounts will be increased if the Company's performance exceeds the target(s) or decreased if the Company's performance does not meet the target(s) at the same rate of increase or decrease as applied to the Team Awards for Management A-Band employees covered under the Lucent Annual Incentive Plan for U.S. based Management Employees.
(e) There will be no limitation on the maximum payouts.
3 Business Group Awards
(a) Every Business Group will establish a Business Group Award plan. Each plan will be based on one or more metricfs). The terms and conditions of such plans will be jointly determined by the appropriate representatives of the Company (from the applicable Business Group) and the Union(s). Discussions regarding such terms and conditions will begin on or about November 1 of the applicable Performance Year. If agreement is not reached by December 31 of the applicable Performance Year then the Business Group Award will be based on the Team Award under the Annual Incentive Plan for U.S. based Management Employees or if this Plan is materially changed or discontinued, as mutually agreed to by the Union(s) and the Company, up to the maximum Amounts set forth in section 3 (c) below.
254
(b) All metrics must be relevant to the success of the business and should contain the following characteristics:
(1) be Measurable
(2) be Reportable
(3) be Auditable
(4) be Time-Bound
--
5 Application of the Performance Awards to Payments for Overtime Worked and Other Benefits
(a) Upon payment of an award, an Overtime Adjustment will be calculated based upon the period covered by the award using the standard Overtime Adjustment formula based on the sum total of such Performance Awards received by an employee.
(b) Performance Awards shall be included in the calculation of annual pay for the purposes of calculating Group Life Insurance benefits.
(c) Performance Awards shall be subject to federal, state and local tax and FICA withholding.
(d) Allotments for the following shall be deducted from Performance Awards:
(1) Lucent Stock Purchase Plan
(2) Long Term Savings and Security Plan
(3) Union dues as specified by the union
(e) The Awards will not be part of the employee's Standard Rate of pay or basic wages for any other purpose nor shall they enter into the computation of any payments made under any other pension or benefits plan, fringe benefit, allowance or differential.
6 Genera]
(a) Awards will be paid no later than 75 days after the end of the Performance Year.
257
National Memorandum (b) The Union may present grievances related to matters covered by the Plan. Any such grievance shall be filed at the final step of the grievance procedure provided for in the applicable local contract. {c) Arbitration of grievances relative to the matters covered by the Plan shall be limited to whether or not the administration of the Business Group Performance Award violated the agreement reached by the parties under paragraph 3 of this provision. Except as provided, nothing herein shall be construed to subject the Plan to arbitration. Any arbitration provided for under this provision shall be subject to the appropriate arbitration procedures in each local contract. (d) Lucent Technologies reserves the right to adjust payment levels upward or downward to offset the effects of significant and unusual events such as the purchase or sale of a Group, etc.
258
National Memorandum WAGE & COMPENSATION PRACTICES Joint Payroll Issues Committee 1 A committee to be appointed by the bargaining chairs shall be identified to continue to review wage and compensation issues as well as payroll maintenance and delivery issues. 2 The committee shall consist of 2 representatives from the unions: 1 from CWA and 1 from IBEW, and 2 representatives from the Company. 3 The committee shall meet at the request of the members to discuss problems or other issues identified by the parties, to seek solutions to said problems, and, where appropriate, make recommendations to the bargaining chairs.
259
WAGE PROTECTION ALLOWANCE
November 1,2004 Mr. Ralph V. Maty, Jr., Vice President, CWA Mr. Troy A. Johnson, International Representative, IBEW
Re:
Wage Protection Allowance
'
This letter confirms our understanding regarding the applicable wage protection allowances incorporated in the current collective bargaining agreements covering employees in bargaining units listed on Attachment A of our 2004 National Memorandum of Understanding.
Such wage protection allowances shall continue in effect in accordance with their terms until the termination of the 2004 National Memorandum of Understanding dated October 31. 2004.
/s/ William L. Schecter Workforce Relations Vice President
Concurred:
/s/ Ralph V. Maly. Jr. Vice President, CWA
/s/ Troy A. Johnson International Representative, IBEW
260
National Memorandum PENSION BAND INCREASE The Lucent Technologies Inc. Pension Plan shall be amended effective July 1, 2005, to revise the Monthly Benefit Table as follows: For employees who retire or who leave the Company on or after July 1, 2005, the applicable Monthly Benefit Table shall be increased by 12% as set forth in Attachment A. Employees who retire or who leave the Company between November 1, 2004 and June 30, 2005 will be eligible for such pension band increase effective July 1,2005.
Pension Band
103 104 105 106 107 108 109 110 111 112 113 114 115 116 117 118 119 120 121 122 123 124 125 126 127 128 129 130 131 132 133 134 135
Attachment A
Effective on or after
7/1/05
--
family $30 family $45 family $60
Medical Expense Plan and Dental Expense Plan design will be subject to modifications as determined by the Company and the Union(s) after consideration of the recommendations of the Joint Health Care Committee (JHCC) for the plan year 2009 and again for the plan year 2012.
National Memorandum ACTIVE HEALTH BENEFITS
ATTACHMENT A
MEDICAL EXPENSE PLAN
Point of Service Plan
1 In-network office visit copayments (including preventative care visits, but excluding Mental Health/Chemical Dependency) will be $30 per visit.
2 Coinsurance for hospitalization, outpatient and inpatient surgery and other services will be: (a) In-network: 5%
(b) Out-of-network: 25%
3 tn-network hospital admission copayment will be $100 per admission
4 Annual in-network out-of-pocket maximum will be:
(a) $1,250 Individual (b) $2,500 Two Person (c) $3,750 Family
5 In-network and out-of-network emergency use of emergency room copayment will be $60 (waived if admitted)
6 In-network and out-of-network non emergency use of emergency room copayment will be $60 plus 25% coinsurance
7 Out-of-network hospital admission copayment will be $300 per admission
8 Out-of-network annual deductible will be: 264
(a) $600 Individual (b) $1,200 Two Person (c) $1,800 Family
National Memorandum
9 Out-of-network annual out-of-pocket maximum will be: (a) $3,500 Individual (b) $7,000 Two Person (c) $10,500 Family
10 Annual Chiropractic visit limit will be 30 visits (in and out-of-network combined)
Indemnity Plan
1 Coinsurance after deductible will be 5% for hospitalization, outpatient and inpatient surgery and other services
2 Annual deductible per individual will be (a) $300 Individual (b) $600 Two person (c) $900 Family
3 Annual out of pocket maximum will be: (a) $1,500 Individual (b) $3,000 Two person (c) $4,500 Family
4 Annual Chiropractic visit limit will be 30 visits
265
Prescription Drug Program 1 4 tier formulary with the following copayments:
(a) Retail: $10/$25/$35/$40 (b) Home delivery: $20/$50/$70/$80 (c) Annual out-of-pocket maximum will be $1,250 per individual (d) Maximum 30 day supply at retail
2 Out-of-network coinsurance will be 30% after annual deductible of: (a) $100 Individual (b) $200 Two person (c) $300 Family
Mental Health and Chemical Dependency Program 1 In-network annual out-of-pocket maximum will be $1,250 per individual
2 In-network outpatient visit copayment will be $30
3 In-network inpatient copayment will be $30 a day
4 In-network alternate treatment copayment will be $30 a day
5 Out-of-network annual out of pocket maximum will be: (a) $3,500 Individual (b) $7,000 Two person (c) $10,500 Family
266
National Memorandum 6 The number of annual free visits for in-network outpatient care will be 3
visits 7 Eliminate the first 5 free days of in-network inpatient care 8 Eliminate the first 5 free days of in-network alternate treatment
267
National Memorandum DENTAL PLAN: REASONABLE AND CUSTOMARY (R&C)
November 1.2004 Mr. Ralph V. Maty, Jr., Vice President, CWA Mr. Troy A. Johnson, International Representative, IBEW Re: Dental Plan: Reasonable and Customary (R&C) This will confirm our understanding regarding the R&C tables in the Lucent Technologies Inc. Dental Expense Plan for Active Employees. It is the intent under the Dental Plan to maintain the R&C tables on a cun'ent basis. The Plan Administrator or insurance carrier periodically updates the R&C tables using cun'ent applicable industry standards. The current vendor has been updating the schedules on a semi-annual basis, most recently January and July. Sincerely,
1st Ralph V. Maly, Jr. Vice President, CWA
A.
Postretirement medical benefits under the Lucent Technologies Inc.
Medical Expense Plan for Retired Employees (the "Retiree Medical Plan") and
postretirement dental benefits under the Lucent Technologies Inc. Dental
Expense Plan for Retired Employees (the "Retiree Dental Plan") will be provided
solely in accordance with the provisions of this Section for employees who retired
on or before the effective date of this agreement and who were represented by
the CWA or IBEW (the "Unions") at the time of their retirement, and their eligible
dependents. Such retired employees and their eligible dependents shall be
referred to in this Section as "Eligible Participants".
B.
Retiree Health Benefits Act. The parties agree to present to Congress
and the Administration a proposed amendment to the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended, (the "Code") to be known as the Retiree Health Benefits Act,
substantially in the form attached as Exhibit A (the "Act"), and to use their best
efforts, working cooperatively, to secure passage of the Act. As a condition to
the Company's commitment to fund healthcare benefits as described in Section E
below, the parties agree that the Act must contain the following provisions:
1. An employer may, from time to time, fund in a section 401(h) account collectively bargained retiree healthcare benefits, not only for current years but also for future years, by in its discretion either transferring to such account excess pension assets, as determined in accordance with section 420 of the Code, or by making supplemental contributions from operating cash as may be required to fund those benefits even if otherwise limited by the full funding limitation.
2. To take advantage of the provisions of the Act, an employer must make an enforceable commitment to fund or prefund retiree healthcare benefits, or set aside excess pension assets to fund or prefund retiree healthcare benefits, as described above, at a level of cost or subsidy negotiated with a union or unions.
3. At the time of a transfer, all pension plan participants would become fully vested in their accrued pension benefit.
4. The employer would not be subject to any maintenance of cost requirement as a result of prefunding, funding or setting aside amounts in accordance with the Act.
5. Transfers of excess pension assets will not be deductible to the employer, but any contributions to the 401(h) account from operating cash will be deductible.
C.
Retiree Healthcare Caps for All Years. Solely for purposes of
determining the amount of the Company's subsidy or cost each year for
postretirement healthcare benefits for Eligible Participants, the Retiree Healthcare Cap shall be calculated as the sum of (a), (b), and (c) below determined for each individual projected to participate in the Retiree Medical Plan and/or the Retiree Dental Plan as of the beginning of such year, where:
"(a)" is equal to the following amounts, applied to each retiree who retired on or after March 1,1990:
Under age 65 - single coverage: Under age 65 - family coverage: Age 65 and over - single coverage: Age 65 and over - family coverage:
$4,225 $8,600 $2,000 $4,625
"(b)" is equal to Medicare Part B premiums calculated for those retirees who retired on or after March 1, 1990 in accordance with the following schedule:
Retirement Date
On or after 3/1/90 but prior to 5/31/98 On or after 5/31/98
Retiree premium $46.00/month
$46.00/month
Spouse premium $33.00/month
$0
and "(c)' is an amount, for enrolled pre-3/1/90 retirees, equal to the expected cost of the 2004 plan design for the year of determination.
The amount of the Company's subsidy each year for postretirement healthcare benefits for Eligible Participants for 2005 and thereafter shall be equal to the Retiree Healthcare Cap.
The parties recognize that the actual costs of the Company in any year may differ from the Retiree Health Care cap for that year, and that the Company may make appropriate adjustments in that year or future years to substantially comply with the Retiree Healthcare Cap provisions.
D.
Healthcare Benefits for 2005 and 2006
(1)
2005 Healthcare Benefits,
Postretirement medical benefits for Eligible Participants under the Retiree Medical Plan and the Retiree Dental Plan will continue from January 1, 2005 until the changes to such plans described in Exhibit B can be implemented. Such implementation date shall be on or before March 1, 2005 as determined by the
270
Company. After such implementation date, such benefits will be provided in accordance with the provisions of Exhibit B. The Company will absorb the cost in excess of the Retiree Healthcare Caps for the period commencing October 1, 2004 and ending on such implementation date.
(2)
2006 Healthcare Benefits.
The Company's subsidy for calendar year 2006 towards postretirement medical and dentat benefits under the Retiree Medical Plan and the Retiree Dental Plan for Eligible Participants will be determined in accordance with the Retiree Healthcare Cap provisions. A Joint Retiree Healthcare Committee (the "Joint Committee") will be established to determine the plan design and premium costs for 2006, working in conjunction with the Company and the Trustees of the Welfare Benefits Trust (as described in Section G) or their representatives. The Joint Committee shall make its initial findings and recommendation by May 15, 2005, with the deadline of finalizing such plan design and premium costs by June 15,2005. If the Joint Committee is unable to make such a determination by June 15, 2005, the Company shall implement a plan design and premium costs consistent with the Retiree Healthcare Cap provisions of Section C. To the extent plan design reductions are necessary to achieve the Retiree Healthcare Caps, and to the extent legally permissible, they shall be made first to dental benefits, second to Medicare Part B reimbursements, and then to medical benefits.
The Joint Committee shall consist of two representatives appointed by each Union and four representatives appointed by the Company.
E.
Healthcare Benefits and Funding for 2007 and All Later Years.
Application of Section E.
This Section E applies if the Act is enacted into law before September 1, 2006. If the Act is not enacted into law before that date or it is enacted but is not consistent with the requirements of Subsection F(4) below, this Section E shall not apply and Section F shall apply.
Healthcare Benefits for 2007 and Later.
For each calendar year commencing in 2007, the Company's subsidy towards
retiree medical and dental plans for Eligible Participants will be determined in
accordance with the Retiree Healthcare Cap provisions of Section C. The Joint
Committee will determine the plan design and premium costs for each calendar
\
year commencing in 2007, working in conjunction with the Company and the
271
Trustees of the Welfare Benefits Trust or their representatives. For each calendar year commencing in 2007, the Joint Committee shall make its initial findings and recommendation by May 15 of the prior year, with the deadline of finalizing such plan design and premium costs by June 15 of the prior year. If the Joint Committee is unable to make such a determination by June 15 of the prior year, the Company shall implement a plan design and premium costs consistent with the Retiree Healthcare Cap provisions of Section C. To the extent plan design reductions are necessary to achieve the Retiree Healthcare Caps, and to the extent legally permissible, they shall be made first to dental benefits, second to Medicare Part B reimbursements, and then to medical benefits.
(3)
Company Healthcare Fundino for 2007 and Later,
The Company agrees that it shall cause the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation for Company-provided postretirement medical and dental plans for Eligible Participants, as determined by the Company in accordance with Financial Accounting Standard 106, to be funded commencing in 2007 by contributions to a section 401(h) account in the Lucent Technologies Pension Plan ("LTPP") in accordance with the Act. Such contributions shall be made either from transfers of pension assets in excess of 125% of plan liabilities (as determined under the Act) or from Company contributions, in either case as contemplated by the Act. The Company shall determine, in its sole discretion, for each year whether it shall fund such amount from Company contributions or from excess pension assets. The Company shall make the initial funding of the section 401(h) account in 2007 from excess pension assets or Company contributions in an amount at least sufficient (after considering available VEBA trust assets) to pay annual costs for retiree healthcare under this Section for that year. The Company shall continue to fund the 401(h) account on the same basis for each year thereafter until it determines there are sufficient assets in the pension plan to fully fund the remaining FAS 106 liabilities for that year in accordance with the Act, in which event the Company may transfer excess pension assets to fully fund the remaining FAS 106 liabilities. At such time, should the Company choose not to fully fund the remaining FAS 106 liabilities, its commitment to continue to fund on an annual basis, either from excess pension assets or Company contributions, shall continue.
In years after such full funding transfer, the section 401(h) account shall be fully funded on an annual basis from excess pension assets or Company contributions as the FAS 106 liabilities are recalculated as a result of experience or changed assumptions.
272
For purposes of determining such accumulated postretiremen! benefit obligation for each year, the plans described in this Section shall be used and the actuarial methods and assumptions shall be the same as those used by the Company in the presentation of its financial statements under FAS 106 for the applicable fiscal year. Excluding Medicare Part D reimbursements, the cost impact of any government program that takes effect on or after November 1, 2004 that results in a reduction of costs shall be allocated between the Company and the retirees in an equitable manner. The cost of any benefit provided by another employer (such as through coordination of benefits) shall reduce the Company's obligation under this Section.
For purposes of determining the Company's funding levels under FAS 106 for Eligible Participants, the Retiree Medical Cap provisions of Section C shall apply.
F.
Other Provisions.
Upon the expiration of the 2003 CWA/ISEW/Lucent National
Memorandum of Understanding ("2003 MOU"), the agreement in that MOU
extending application of the retiree medical caps past the expiration of the 2003
MOU has been terminated and its obligations are no longer binding upon the
Company or the Unions. The parties agree that this 2004 Memorandum of
Understanding agreement on postretirement medical and dental benefits fully
supersedes and replaces all prior oral or written agreements among the parties
with respect to postretirement medical and dental benefits.
Upon the expiration of the 2003 MOU, the January 9, 2003 letter
agreement titled "VEBA Stock Proposal", printed as part of the 2003 MOU, has
been terminated and its obligations are no longer binding upon the Company or
the Unions. The January 9, 2003 letter provided a funding mechanism for the
VEBA trust for the years 2005 and thereafter, providing that certain conditions
had been met. This agreement extinguishes application of the January 9, 2003
letter to any period after the expiration of the 2003 MOU.
The May 31,1998 letter agreement. Attachment 6 of the 2003 MOU, is
hereby cancelled and has no further force and effect. The May 31, 1998 letter
committed Lucent to "negotiate the level of health care caps and company
contributions for retiree medical coverage and vehicles for providing such
contributions for those who retired after March 1. 1990 in all future bargaining
sessions with the two unions." This agreement extinguishes application of the
May 31, 1998 letter to any period after the expiration of the 2003 MOU.
(4)
If the Retiree Health Benefits Act is not enacted into law by September
1, 2006, or if such Act is enacted but does not meet each of the basic
273
requirements described in Subsection B above or, in the Company's sole discretion, imposes additional constraints that significantly impair the Company's ability to prefund retiree healthcare benefits in accordance with such Act as currently contemplated, Sections A through E of this agreement on Postretirement Medical and Dental Benefits shall terminate on such date, there shall be no further obligation to fund the Welfare Benefits Trust under Subsection G(3), and this Section F shall survive. No prior agreement reached among the parties or prior obligation of any party terminated by this Memorandum of Understanding shall be revived upon such termination. The parties understand that under such circumstances, the Company may exercise its discretion regarding the amount of a retiree healthcare subsidy on or after December 31, 2006. Under such circumstances, the parties may, consistent with their understanding of the permissive nature of the subject, but shall not be obligated to, enter into discussions with respect to retiree healthcare, but in no event shall any retiree healthcare subsidy the Company may provide exceed the Retiree Healthcare Cap funding level described in Section C above.
(5)
The parties may agree at any time to discuss plan design changes that
may reduce the premium costs or .may otherwise benefit plan participants,
including but not limited to changes that may be appropriate in light of significant
changes to the United States healthcare system. However, nothing herein shall
require the Company or the Union to bargain over postretirement medical and
dental benefits, which the parties acknowledge is a permissive subject of
bargaining.
G.
Welfare Benefits Trust
Establishment of Welfare Benefits Trust. The parties recognize that
the actual cost of the postretirement healthcare benefits to be made available to
Eligible Participants through the Retiree Medical Plan and the Retiree Dental
Plan exceeds the level established by the Retiree Healthcare Caps and that the
excess cost would, in the absence of further funding, have to be met by premium
(or other) payments by Eligible Participants. The parties further recognize that
the additional costs that the Eligible Participants would have to absorb may make
further participation in the retiree healthcare program prohibitive for many.
Accordingly, the parties agree to establish a supplemental retiree healthcare benefit bust to pay a portion of the cost of healthcare benefits that the Eligible Participants (who may, for purposes of this Section G, include active employees who have retired from the Company) would otherwise be required to absorb through premiums or other payments. Such trust shall be a joint labor management employee benefit fund to be known as the Lucent Welfare Benefits
274
Trust (the Trust")- The obligations set forth in this Section G are in addition to any obligations set forth elsewhere in this Memorandum.
The Trust will be established by February 28, 2005. The Trust will be a voluntary employees' beneficiary association meeting the requirements of section 501(c)(9) of the Code, and will meet other applicable legal requirements, including Section 302 of the Labor Management Relations Act and the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA"). All assets of the Trust shall be held for the exclusive purposes of (i) providing retiree healthcare benefits to Eligible Participants and their beneficiaries, and (ii) defraying the reasonable expenses of administering the Trust. The Trust may provide benefits to participants and beneficiaries by reimbursing the Company for benefit payments previously made under the Retiree Medical Plan or Retiree Dental Plan. Although contributions are provided until fiscal year 2012, the parties anticipate that the Trust may continue to operate beyond that date.
Trustees. The Trustees of the Trust shall be one individual appointed
by each Union, and two individuals appointed by the Company, or their
respective successors. The Trustees will have the exclusive authority to manage
the Trust fund and invest its assets for the exclusive benefit of its participants
consistent with the requirements of ERISA. The Trustees shall meet at least
quarterly or on a different schedule as they may determine.
Funding. The Trust will be funded by contributions by the Company or,
if permitted by applicable law, may in the Company's discretion be funded by
asset transfers from the LTPP. The Company will fund the Trust, or cause it to
be funded, with assets of $400 million. Such funding shall be completed by the
end of fiscal year 2012. The Company shall determine the exact amount of each
annual contribution and when such contributions shall be made; provided,
however, that a minimum payment shall be made for each year of this agreement
in the amount of $25 million. The parties recognize that there is no obligation of
the Company to fund the Trust in excess of the amount set forth in this
paragraph. In addition, the Trust may be funded by contributions or premiums
from Eligible Participants.
Benefits. The Trustees will have the exclusive authority to determine
the amount, manner and timing of benefit payments under the Trust. The
Trustees shall appoint a Benefits Committee, which shall consist of two
representatives nominated by each Union and four representatives nominated by
the Company. A Trustee may serve on the Benefits Committee. The Benefits
275
Committee shall represent the Trustees in carrying out the duties described in Subsections D{2) and E(2).
In conjunction with the establishment of the plan design and premiums as described in Subsections D(2) and E(2), the Trustees will detemiine what amount of benefits are appropriate to be paid from the Trust during the forthcoming year for Eligible Participants taking into consideration the amount of funds available and the need for those funds to provide benefits in accordance with the Trust Agreement.
No representations are made as to the taxability of any benefit provided under the Trust to any Eligible Participant.
Administration, The parties will cooperate in developing guidelines
governing the operations of the Trust, including but not limited to the function of
the Trustees and the Benefits Committee and benefits to be funded by the Trust.
The parties agree that the Trust shall be subject to periodic audit by a qualified
independent accounting firm. The expenses of such audits and other reasonable
expenses of administering the Trust shall be charged to the Trust.
276
National Memorandum EXHIBIT A
S.
/HR.
To amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and make conforming changes to encourage the funding of collectively bargained retiree health benefits.
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the "Retiree Health Benefits Act of 2005".
SECTION 2. FUNDING OF RETIREE HEALTH BENEFITS.
(a) AMENDMENTS OF INTERNAL REVENUE CODE OF 1986 -
(1) Subsection (b)(1) of section 420 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding the following flush language at the end thereof:
"A collectively bargained transfer (as defined in subsection (e)(5)) shall also be treated as a qualified transfer."
(2) Subsection (b)(2) of section 420 of such Code is amended by adding the following subparagraph immediately after subparagraph (B) thereof:
"(C) EXCEPTION FOR COLLECTIVELY BARGAINED TRANSFERS. A collectively bargained transfer shall not be taken into account for purposes of subparagraph (A)."
(3) Subsection (b)(3) of section 420 of such Code is amended to read as follows:
"(3) LIMITATION ON AMOUNT TRANSFERRED.
"(A) IN GENERAL. The amount of excess pension assets which may be transferred in a qualified transfer (other than a collectively bargained transfer) shall not exceed the
amount which is reasonably estimated to be the amount the employer maintaining the plan will pay (whether directly or through reimbursement) out of such account during the taxable year of the transfer for qualified current retiree health liabilities.
"(B) EXCEPTION FOR COLLECTIVELY BARGAINED TRANSFERS. The amount of excess pension assets which may be transferred in a collectively bargained transfer shall not exceed the amount which is reasonably estimated, in accordance with the provisions of the applicable collective bargaining agreement and generally accepted accounting principles, to be the amount the employer maintaining the plan will pay (whether directly or through reimbursement) out of such account during the collectively bargained cost maintenance period for collectively bargained retiree health liabilities."
(4) Subsection (b)(5) of section 420 of such Code is amended to read as follows:
"(5) No transfer made after December 31, 2013, shall be treated as a qualified transfer unless the transfer is a collectively bargained transfer."
(5) Subsection (c)(1) of section 420 is amended to read as follows:
"(1) USE OF TRANSFERRED ASSETS.
"(B) COLLECTIVELY BARGAINED TRANSFER. Any assets transferred to a health benefits account In a collectively bargained transfer (and any income allocable thereto) shall be used only to pay collectively bargained
278
retiree health liabilities (other than liabilities of key employees not taken into account under subsection (e)(6)(D)) for the taxable year of the transfer or for any subsequent taxable year during the collectively bargained cost maintenance period (whether directly or through reimbursement).
-(C) AMOUNTS NOT USED TO PAY FOR HEALTH BENEFITS.
"(i) IN GENERAL. Any assets transferred to a health benefits account in a qualified transfer (and any income allocable thereto) which
"(1) are not used as provided in subparagraph (A) (in the case of a qualified transfer other than a collectively bargained transfer), or
"(II) cannot be used as provided in subparagraph (B) (in the case of a collectively bargained transfer)
"shall be transferred out of the account to the transferor plan.
"(ii) TAX TREATMENT OF AMOUNTS, Any amount transferred out of an account under clause (i) -
"(I) shall not be includible in the gross income of the employer, but
"(II) shall be treated as an employer reversion for purposes of section 4980 (without regard to subsection (d) thereof).
"(D) ORDERING RULE.-For purposes of this section, any amount paid out of a health benefits account shall be treated as paid first out of the assets and income described in subparagraph (A) (in the case of a qualified transfer other than a collectively bargained transfer) or
279
subparagraph (B) (in the case of a collectively bargained transfer)."
(6) Subsection (c)(3)(A) of section 420 of such Code is amended to read as follows:
"(A) IN GENERAL. The requirements of this paragraph are met i f -
"(i) except as provided in clause (ii), each group health plan or arrangement under which applicable health benefits are provided provides that the applicable employer cost for each taxable year during the cost maintenance period shall not be less than the higher of the applicable employer costs for each of the 2 taxable years immediately preceding the taxable year of the qualified transfer; and
"(ii) in the case of a collectively bargained transfer, each collectively bargained group health plan under which collectively bargained health benefits are provided provides that the collectively bargained employer cost for each taxable year during the collectively bargained cost maintenance period shall not be less than the amount specified by the applicable collective bargaining agreement."
(7) Subsection (c)(3)(B) of section 420 of such Code is amended by striking "APPLICABLE" in the caption and by adding the following flush language at the end of subsection (c)(3)(B):
Tor purposes of this paragraph, the term 'collectively bargained employer cost' means the average cost per covered individual of providing collectively bargained retiree health benefits as determined in accordance with the applicable collective bargaining agreement. Such agreement may provide for an appropriate reduction in the collectively bargained employer cost to take into account any portion of the collectively bargained retiree health benefits that is provided or financed by a government program or other source."
(8) Subsection (c)(3)(D) of section 420 of such Code is amended to read as follows:
280
"(D) MAINTENANCE PERIOD.
"(i) COST MAINTENANCE PERIOD. For purposes of this paragraph, the term 'cost maintenance period' means the period of 5 taxable years beginning with the taxable year in which the qualified transfer occurs. If a taxable year is in 2 or more overlapping cost maintenance periods, this paragraph shall be applied by taking into account the highest applicable employer cost required to be provided under subparagraph (A)(i) for such taxable year.
"(ii) COLLECTIVELY BARGAINED COST MAINTENANCE PERIOD. For purposes of this paragraph, the term 'collectively bargained cost maintenance period' means, with respect to each covered retiree and his covered spouse and dependents, the shorter o f -
"(I) the remaining lifetime of such covered retiree and his covered spouse and dependents, or
"(II) the period of coverage provided by the collectively bargained health plan (determined as of the date of the collectively bargained transfer) with respect to such covered retiree and his covered spouse and dependents."
(9) Subsection (d) of section 420 of such Code is amended to read as follows:
"(d) LIMITATIONS ON EMPLOYER. For purposes of this title
"(1) DEDUCTION LIMITATIONS. No deduction shall be allowed -
"(A) for the transfer of any amount to a health benefits account in a qualified transfer (or any retransfer to the plan under subsection (c)(1)(C)),
"(B) for qualified current retiree health liabilities or collectively bargained retiree health liabilities
281
paid out of the assets (and income) described in subsection (c)(1), or
"(C) except in the case of a collectively bargained transfer, for any amounts to which subparagraph (B) does not apply and which are paid for qualified current retiree health liabilities for the taxable year to the extent such amounts are not greater than the excess (if any) o f -
'(i) the amount determined under subparagraph (A) (and income allocable thereto), over
under subparagraph (B).
"(ii) the amount determined
"(2) OTHER LIMITATIONS.
"(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), an employer may not contribute after December 31, 1990, any amount to a health benefits account or welfare benefit fund (as defined in section 419(e)(1)) with respect to qualified current retiree health liabilities for which transferred assets are required to be used under subsection (c)(1)(A).
"(B) An employer may contribute an amount to a health benefits account or welfare benefit fund (as defined in section 419(e)(1)) with respect to collectively bargained retiree health liabilities for which transferred assets are required to be used under subsection (c)(1)(B), and the deductibility of any such contribution shall be governed by the limits applicable to the deductibility of contributions to a welfare benefit fund under a collective bargaining agreement (as determined under section 419A(f)(5)(A)) without regard to whether such contributions are made to a health benefits account or welfare benefit fund and without regard to the provisions of section 404 or the other provisions of this section."
282
(10) Subsection (e) of section 420 of such Code is amended by adding the following immediately after paragraph (4):
"(5) COLLECTIVELY BARGAINED TRANSFER. The term 'collectively bargained transfer" means a transfer -
"(A) of excess pension assets to a health benefits account which is part of such plan in a taxable year beginning after December 31, 200_,
"(B) which does not contravene any other provision of law,
"(C) with respect to which the following requirements are met in connection with the plan-
(c)(1),
"(0 the use requirements of subsection
"(ii) the vesting requirements of subsection (c)(2), and
"(iri) the minimum cost requirements of subsection (c)(3),
"(D) which is made in accordance with a collective bargaining agreement, and
"(E) which, before the transfer, the employer designates, in a written notice delivered to each employee organization that is a party to the applicable collective bargaining agreement, as a collectively bargained transfer in accordance with this section.
"(6) COLLECTIVELY BARGAINED RETIREE HEALTH LIABILITIES.
"(A) IN GENERAL. The term 'collectively bargained retiree health liabilities' means the present value, as of the beginning of a taxable year and determined in
283
accordance with the applicable collective bargaining agreement, of all collectively bargained health benefits (including administrative expenses) for such taxable year and all subsequent taxable years during the collectively bargained cost maintenance period.
"(B) REDUCTION FOR AMOUNTS PREVIOUSLY SET ASIDE. The amount determined under subparagraph (A) shall be reduced by the value (as of the close of the plan year preceding the year of the collectively bargained transfer) of the assets in all health benefits accounts or welfare benefit funds (as defined in section 419(e)(1)) set aside to pay for the collectively bargained retiree health liabilities.
"(C) COLLECTIVELY BARGAINED HEALTH BENEFITS. The term 'collectively bargained health benefits' means health benefits or coverage which are provided to-
"(i)(l) retired employees who immediately before the collectively bargained transfer, are entitled to receive such benefits upon retirement and who are entitled to pension benefits under the plan, and
"(II) their spouses and dependents; and
"(ii)(l) if specified by the provisions of the applicable collective bargaining agreement governing the collectively bargained transfer,' active employees who, following their retirement, are entitled to receive such benefits and who are entitled to pension benefits under the plan, and
"(II) their spouses and dependents.
--
such taxable year or in calculating collectively bargained employer cost under subsection (c)(3)(B).
"(7) COLLECTIVELY BARGAINED HEALTH PLAN. The term 'collectively bargained health plan' means a group health plan or arrangement for retired employees and their spouses and dependents that is maintained pursuant to one or more collective bargaining agreements."
(11) Subsection (h) of section 401 of such Code is amended so that the last sentence thereof reads as follows:
"In no event shall the requirements of paragraph (1) be treated as met if the aggregate actual contributions for medical benefits (other than contributions with respect to collectively bargained retiree health liabilities within the meaning of section 420(e)(6)), when added to actual contributions for life insurance protection under the plan, exceed 25 percent of the total actual contributions to the plan (other than contributions to fund past service credits) after the date on which the account is established."
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS -
(1) Section 101(e)(3) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 {29 U.S.C. 1021(e)(3)) is amended by striking "Pension Funding Equity Act of 2004" and inserting "Retiree Health Benefits Act of 2005."
(2) Section 403(c)(1) of such Act (29 U.S.C. 1103(c)(1)) is amended by striking "Pension Funding Equity Act of 2004" and inserting "Retiree Health Benefits Act of 2005."
(3) Paragraph (13) of section 408(b) of such Act (29 U.S.C. 1108(b)(3)) is amended
(A) by striking "before January 1, 2014" and inserting "in accordance with section 420 of title 26 (as in effect on the date of enactment of the Retiree Health Benefits Act of 2005)"; and
285
National Memorandum (B) by striking "Pension Funding Equity Act of 2004" and
inserting "Retiree Health Benefits Act of 2005". (c) EFFECTIVE DATE. The amendments made by this section shall apply to years beginning after December 31,200_.
286
National Memorandum EXHIBIT B
POSTRETIREMENT HEALTH BENEFITS MEDICAL EXPENSE PLAN Postretirement medical benefits under the Lucent Technologies Inc. Medical Expense Plan for Retired Employees ("the Retired Medical Plan") will continue with such changes as described below. The amounts and percentages shown below describe the participant's costs. Point of Service Plan
1 In-network office visit copayment (including preventative care visits, but excluding Mental Health/Chemical Dependency) will be $30 per visit.
2 Coinsurance for hospitalization, outpatient and inpatient surgery and other services will be: (a) ln-netwon\: 5%
3 In-network hospital admission copayment will be $100 per admission
4 Annual in-network out-of-pocket maximum will be: (a) $1,250 Individual (b) $2,500 Two Person (c) $3,750 Family
National Memorandum 7 Out-of-network hospital admission copayment will be $300 per admission
8 Out-of-network annual deductible will be: (a) $600 Individual (b) $1,200 Two Person (c) $1,800 Family
10 Annual Chiropractic visit limit will be 30 visits {in and out of network combined)
Indemnity Plan 1 Coinsurance after deductible will be 5% for hospitalization, out patient and
inpatient surgery and other services
2 Annual deductible per individual will be $150 plus 1% of annual pension not to exceed 3% of annual pension
288
Prescription Drug Program 1 4 Tier formulary with the following copayments:
(a) Retail: $10/$25/$357$40 (b) Home delivery: $20/$50/$70/$80 (c) Annual out of pocket maximum will be $1,250 per individual (d) Maximum 30 day supply at retail
2 Out-of-network coinsurance will be 30% after annual deductible of: (a) $100 Individual <b) $200 Two person (c) $300 Family
Mental Health and Chemical Dependency Program 1 In-network annual out of pocket maximum will be $1,250 per individual
2 In-network out patient visit copayment will be $30
289
National Memorandum 6 The number of annual free visits for in-network out patient care will be 3
visits
7 Eliminate the first 5 free days of in-network, inpatient care
8 Eliminate the first 5 free days of in-network alternate treatment
Other Covered Charges Buy Up Provision
Currently, retirees who are Medicare eligible or who are enrolled in the traditional indemnity medical plan have the opportunity to increase the $50,000 maximum amount of company provided coverage for Other Covered Charges (OCC). The OCC buy up allows a retiree to elect an additional $50,000, $100,000 or $200,000 of coverage for himself/herself and each covered dependent. The cost per covered individual is $9.00, $18.00, or $27.00 annually. Election of this additional coverage has been required at the time of retirement
The OCC buy up option will now be permitted to be exercised one time at retirement, during the annual open enrollment period or when a qualified status change occurs. Once a retiree has elected the OCC buy up, he/she can only decrease coverage thereafter. Decreases in coverage become effective the first day of the plan year following the plan year in which the election to cancel or decrease was made. No subsequent increases are permitted.
Premiums for Post 3/1/90 Retirees
1 Pre-65 retirees will be as follows: (a) 2005 plan year will be 3% of monthly pension benefit for single (b) 2005 plan year will be 5% of monthly pension benefit for family
2 Post-65 retirees will be as follows: (a) 2005 plan year will be 2% of monthly pension benefit for single (b) 2005 plan year will be 4% of monthly pension benefit for family
290
National Memorandum For 2006 and beyond, premiums for post 3/1/90 retirees will be increased on an annual basis 0.5% per year unless modified in accordance with- the Postretiremen! Medical and Dental Benefits Memorandum.
291
Savings Plan benefits for represented participants under the Lucent Technologies Inc. Long Term Savings and Security Plan (the "Savings Plan") will continue with such changes described below effective as of January 1, 2005 or as soon thereafter as practicable:
Eligibility
Change eligibility to immediate eligibility to contribute, with Company match commencing after Six Months of Eligibility Service.
Residential Loan Feature
Include a feature that allows for residential loans with up to 175 months to repay.
Limited Double Payroll Deductions
Modify Section 4.5 of the Savings Plan so that all references to 3 months are changed to 4 months, thereby permitting makeup contributions to be made with respect to up the 4 months of missed contributions as long as all such makeup contributions are completed within 4 months of eligibility.
Percent-based Plan Design
Amend the plan to change the participant contribution structure from one based on $5 increments to a percentage-based structure. The employer match would remain at 66-2/3% of the amount of the Pretax Matched Contributions and AfterTax Matched Contributions, which would be limited in the aggregate to 6% of eligible compensation per pay period.
To maximize the company matching contribution for a participant who has attained age 50, no catch-up contribution may be made unless the participant is already contributing at 6% of eligible compensation.
For a Participant with excused unpaid time off for union business during a pay period, Compensation shall include the amount he or she would have been paid by the company based on the adjusted rate of pay that would have applied if the Participant had worked the period of the excused unpaid time off for union business; provided that such rule shall not apply if total deductions for all contributions to the Savings Plan and other deduction and withholding obligations
would be greater than the Participant's actual pay from the Company for such pay period.
Raise Participant Deferral Rate
Participants are eligible to contribute from 1% to 25% of their eligible compensation, In 1% increments, each pay period, subject to IRS limitations then in effect.
Partial Withdrawals by Terminated Participants
Retirees who are eligible for a service pension or disability pension currently have the option to take partial withdrawals from their vested account, in dollar amounts they specify (with a minimum of $300 or the amount in their account, if less). This distribution option would be extended to terminated participants who are not service or disability pension eligible, subject to administrative limits on frequency and minimum amount.
DeMinimls Distributions
If the vested account balance of a participant who separates from service for any reason other than death is $5,000 or less, and such participant does not make a distribution election after the participant's off roll date, the participant's vested account balance will automatically be distributed in a lump sum in accordance with regulatory requirements. Accounts will be valued periodically for this purpose.
Financial Advice Participants will be provided an opportunity to access individual web-based investment advice addressing their investments in the Savings Plan if the advice product is determined advisable by the plan's fiduciaries. Such advice wilt be provided, if at all, under terms agreed upon by the plan's fiduciaries, and on the same basis, including cost structure, as is provided to participants in the Lucent Savings Plan.
293
National Memorandum FINANCIAL COUNSELING SERVICES
November 1,2004 Mr. Ralph V. Maly, Jr.. Vice President, CWA Mr. Troy A. Johnson, International Representative, IBEW Re: Financial Counseling Services During bargaining, the IBEW and CWA expressed an interest in obtaining certain personal financial and investment counseling, including active money management, for LTSSP participants, distinct from the web-based and personal asset manager services proposed by Lucent. Due to the complexities of offering this type of service as part of the LTSSP and given the limited amount of time available to the parties during bargaining, we agree to meet as soon as is practicable following the signing of the agreement to consider the feasibility of offering such services in light of the applicable fiduciary requirements, the administrative burdens to Lucent and the plan, and the fees that would be payable by LTSSP participants. Sincerely,
/s/ William L. Schecter Workforce Relations Vice President Concurred:
fsJ Ralph V. Maly. Jr. Vice President, CWA
VACATIONS
The schedule below shall replace the existing schedule in the Article - Vacations in all collective bargaining agreements. The revised schedule reflects administrative modifications to clarify Term of Employment periods and does not change the cun'ent provisions of the Article - Vacations nor the current practices regarding vacation eligibility for employees who terminate employment by resignation or who are terminated for cause.
Term of Employment Completed (or would have been completed) in the Calendar Year of
the Termination
--
National Memorandum DOMESTIC PARTNER BENEFIT COVERAGE Effective February 1. 2005, the Domestic Partner Benefit Coverage provision will be continued with the following changes: 1 Benefit Plans - the following benefit plans will be added as covered plans: (a) Long Term Care Plan (b) Dependent Group Life Plan, and (c) Dependent Accident Loss Insurance Plan
2 Eligibility Criteria - the following criteria will be modified as specified below and all other eligibility criteria remain unchanged: (a) Bullet one will be modified to read: "Is a member of the same or opposite sex as the employee" (b) Item number 7, which reads: "reside in a state under the law of which marriage or an attempted marriage between these two persons is not recognized as a valid marriage" shall be deleted.
3 Group Life Beneficiaries - the beneficiary default methodology for Company provided life insurance under the Group Life Plan will be modified as follows in the sequential order set forth below: (a) Lawful spouse or domestic partner (as defined in the Domestic Partner Coverage provision, as amended here) (b) Children of employee (c) Parent(s) of employee (d) Estate of employee
National Memorandum MILITARY LEAVES OF ABSENCE - MODIFICATIONS
The Military Leaves of Absence agreement will continue in effect with the following modifications and the agreement, as revised and amended, will be printed in the national section of the applicable collective bargaining agreements: The Military Differential Pay limits are increased as follows: 1 Military Training Duty - A maximum of 20 scheduled work days (including
holidays) in each military fiscal year 2 Initial Active Duty for Training - First 4 weeks (20 days) 3 Emergency Service - A maximum of 20 scheduled work days (including
holidays) in each calendar year (See note 2)
MILITARY LEAVES OF ABSENCE-
A regular employee (not temporary, term or occasional) who enters the United States Uniformed Services for Active Duty for Military Service shall be granted a Military Leave of Absence for the period of his/her necessary absence. Voluntary extension of military service beyond five (5) years shall not be construed as necessary absence. A regular employee (not temporary, term or occasional) who is a member of a reserve component or organized militia of the state and enters upon Military Training Duty will be granted a Military Leave of Absence for the period of the necessary absence for such training. The term "Uniformed Services'' as used herein shall mean Uniformed Services of the United States as specified in the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994.
An employee, on a Military Leave of Absence for Active Duty for Military Service or military training duty and who has re-employment rights under the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994 and who makes application for reinstatement within the period provided in the law. will receive upon reinstatement, full service credit for the period of absence for military service or training duty.
Military Leaves of Absence will be with eligibility to sickness disability benefits at the termination of the leave if the employee is then disabled but otherwise entitled to reinstatement in accordance with the terms of the Lucent Benefit Plans.
In death cases occurring during a Military Leave of Absence, sickness death benefits, where payable, shall be based upon the term of net credited service at the time the leave was granted, plus the elapsed time of Military Leave of Absence to the date of death, and shall be computed at the time the leave began.
Sickness disability benefits, where payable, shall be granted upon the net credited service at the time the leave was granted plus the elapsed time on Military Leave of Absence to the termination of such leave, and shall be computed on the basis of Lucent pay in effect at the time of the employee's reinstatement.
It is the policy of Lucent to pay a Military Differential Pay to regular employees (not temporary, term or occasional) who receive and provide the Company with a
copy of military orders for military service in the U. S. Armed Forces subject to conditions imposed by federal law.
Military Differential Pay is the excess of Lucent pay over military pay received by an eligible employee while on a Military Leave of Absence.
Lucent pay is an employee's adjusted rate {excluding overtime) in effect at the time the Military Leave of Absence begins. Night work differentials, seven-day coverage and transition payments (non-lump sum) are included.
Military pay is an employee's military basic pay rate in effect when the Military Leave of Absence begins. All allowances and supplementary pay elements (i.e., BAS (Basic Allowance for Subsistence), BAQ (Basic Allowance for Quarters), Hazardous Duty Pay, Proficiency Pay, Special Duty Pay] are not included.
The Military Differential Pay shall be up to the limits prescribed in the following or the period of Military Service, whichever is shorter:
If the leave of absence and duration are...
Active Duty for Military Service (normally 2-5 years) (See note 3)
And the date the leave begins the employee's net credited service Is... 1 year or less
More than 1 year
Military Training Duty- No minimum normally 2 weeks(See
note 1)
Then the duration of Military Differential Pay is... First 15 weeks
First 26 weeks
A max. of 20 scheduled workdays (including holidays) in each military fiscal year (Oct. 1-Sept. 30)
--
Group Life and Accident Loss Insurance
Dependent Accidental Loss Insurance Plan Dependent Group Life Insurance Plan Group Life Insurance Plan
Supplementary Accidental Loss Insurance Plan
Supplementary Life Insurance Plan
Health Care Reimbursement Account Plan
Long Term Care Plan
Long Term Disability Plan for Occupational Employees
Long Term Savings and Security Plan
Medical Expense Plan for Occupational Employees
Occupational Group Legal Services Plan
Pension Plan
Sickness and Accident Disability Benefit Plan for Occupational Employees
Vision Care Plan Work and Family Program
THE ALLIANCE
Lucent Technologies and the Communications Workers of America (CWA) agree to continue to provide the services of the Alliance for Employee Growth and Development (The Alliance) as described in Attachment A.
Alliance funding will be established at $550 per each active CWA represented employee per year. Forthepenod November 1.2004 to December 31, 2005, the annual funding will be based upon the number of such persons on the roll as of October 31, 2004. For 2006 and all subsequent years, during the term of this Memorandum of Understanding, the annual funding will be based upon the number of such persons on the roll as of May 31 st of previous year.
Lucent will make funds available each month for the Alliance on the basis of onetwelfth (1/12) of the annual funding level. Lucent shall credit these funds to an account designated for the Alliance and its activities within 15 days of the end of the month.
Lucent Technologies and the CWA agree that the funds made available to the Alliance will be exclusively used to cover the cost and delivery of training programs for Lucent employees who arerepresentedby the CWA.
The Solectron funding in the Alliance reserve will be utilized for the eligible Solectron employees. Upon completion of eligibility, any remaining Solectron funding will be reverted to the Alliance for the exclusive use of Alliance programs on behalf of eligible Lucent employees who are represented by the CWA.
304
THE ALLIANCE FOR EMPLOYEE GROWTH AND DEVELOPMENT
1 Lucent Technologies and the Communications Workers of America (CWA) mutually acknowledge their pride in the talents, abilities, creativity and commitment of Lucent's work force. The parties share a vision of the work environment in which all employees are encouraged to develop their skills, abilities and talents to the fullest extent possible and are furnished every opportunity to take the initiative to do so. Such an environment will not only offer the maximum opportunity to employees to attain their employment goals, but will also lead to increased commitment by employees to devote their maximum energies to improving Lucent's productivity and competitiveness. It is anticipated that this level of employee commitment will contribute significantly to marketplace success for Lucent and to the increased employment security for employees associated with such success.
(a) To help achieve this vision, a separate and distinct jointly administered entity, known as the Alliance for Employee Growth and Development (the Alliance), will continue to operate as a not-for-profit corporation. The mission of the Alliance is to make available learning experiences to employees which will enhance their occupational and work group skills; provide opportunities for personal and career development; stimulate and sustain their contributions to Lucent's success through improved communication skills, motivation, improved work habits and enhanced interpersonal skills; familiarize them with state-of-the-art technology, based on the present or anticipated needs of the business; and increase the probability that it they face displacement or dislocation, they will find alternative employment, either in Lucent or in the outside job market.
(b) The Alliance focuses on both Personal/Career Development and Job Displacement Training curricula. It is envisioned that the Alliance will generally arrange and/or underwrite these curricula by contracting with accredited outside parties for delivery. In some cases, it may provide the curricula directly.
(c) It is understood that the Alliance is not intended to replace Lucent's existing job-specific training, nor does it limit the right of the parties to
305
provide educational and training programs on the same, similar or other subjects as they may deem appropriate.
(d) The Grievance and Arbitration procedures of this Agreement have no application to, or jurisdiction over, any matter relating to the Alliance.
Personal/Career Development Curriculum
2 The types of programs which the Alliance will underwrite to enhance the personal/career development of regular employees will include, but not be limited to:
(a) career counseling
(b) skills inventory and aptitude assessment
(c) career training
(d) personal growth training
(e) training associated with skill development programs, such as QWL, which may not be directly related to the performance of an employee's current job.
Job Displacement Curriculum
3 Lucent will seek to identify those types of occupational jobs in each of Lucent's major organizational units in which growth, as well as decline, are anticipated. From that information and other resources, the Alliance will recommend, arrange and/or underwrite training that will assist those employees who occupy jobs in which a decline is anticipated, or who may be displaced due to force surplus, to acquire new skills. The training will be designed to increase the probability that these employees will be in a position to compete successfully for new positions within Lucent, or to find alternative employment outside of Lucent.
(a) Where appropriate, successful completion of Personal/Career Development or Job Displacement curricula which are relevant to a job will be considered by Lucent when selecting employees for job opportunities.
Curricula Development Implementation and Delivery
306
4 In identifying areas on which Alliance activities should focus, the Alliance will consult with Lucent and CWA officials, as well as with professionals in such fields as higher education, industrial psychology and vocational training. In addition, the Alliance will confer with, advise and offer professional and financial assistance to local training/retraining committees, in such areas as:
(a) identifying educational, training and retraining needs, as well as the resources available to meet those needs
(b) developing programs designed to meet identified employee needs
(c) publicizing and encouraging employee participation in Alliance activities
(d) undertaking to review, evaluate, and make recommendations on proposals for the use of Alliance funds by the local training/retraining committees
(e) coordinating forums, seminars, and workshops for the exchange of ideas and concepts among the local committees
(f) commissioning research into, and evaluation of, alternative approaches to training, retraining, and job placement.
(g) The Alliance will also contact appropriate governmental agencies federal, state and local - to obtain other types of governmental assistance that may be available for Alliance activities.
Eligibility for Participation In Alliance Programs
5 Regular full and part time employees will be eligible to participate in all Alliance activities, in addition, employees who have been displaced or who are on LAYOFF will be eligible to participate in Alliance activities provided that they commence such participation within six months of LAYOFF. A LAID OFF employee may continue participation in Alliance activities for a period extending one year beyond the number of weeks' Termination Allowance the employee is entitled to receive in accordance with the Termination Allowance Article of the applicable local agreement, or until they find alternative employment, whichever occurs first. The Alliance will continue to underwrite any activity that a participant commences within that period, provided that the Alliance initially committed to underwrite it.
307
National Memorandum (a) Participation in either the Personal/Career Development or the Job Displacement curricula is voluntary and will be made available at convenient times and locations, such as after hours at the work site, local community colleges, or CWA offices. Time spent by participants in Alliance activities will be outside scheduled working hours, and not paid or considered as time worked. In selected instances, Lucent, at its discretion, may permit active employees to receive such training during working hours.
Reports 6 The Alliance will publish an Annual Report, detailing the training that was
made available to Lucent employees, the number of participants who received such training, the funds expended and the manner in which funds were utilized.
308
FAMILY CARE DEVELOPMENT FUND (FCDF) The Family Care Development Fund will be suspended for the term of the MOU.
The remaining fund balance ($263,512) will be added to the funding for Alliance and ETOP on a proportional basis, based on October 31, 2004 CWA and IBEW headcount, respectively.
This transfer of funds will be made within 90 day of the date of signing this MOU.
Funding will be continued for grants that were approved by the Family Care Development Fund Joint Committee on or before October 16,2004.
National Memorandum LEAD 21
Lucent Education and Development for the 2 1 " Century (LEAD 21) will continue except as modified below: 1 ConSem: Loans for Education
The program shall be renamed "Loans for Education." 2 The Lucent CWA/IBEW Academic Award Program
The program will be extended for the term of this Memorandum of Understanding.
310
November 1,2004
ERC/LTP COORDINATORS
Mr. Ralph V. Maly, Jr., Vice President, CWA Mr. Troy A. Johnson, International Representative, IBEW
--
Re: Lucent Career Transition Option Program (LCTOP)
The parties agree that, due to the complex nature of the Lucent Career Transition Option Program, a joint committee will be formed with representatives from the Unions and the Company to develop recommendations to be reviewed by the National Bargainers. The joint committee will contain not more than four (4) union appointees (two (2) from the CWA and two (2) from the IBEW) and not more than four (4) Company appointees. The committee members shall have no authority to bind the entities they represent, and the CWA, the IBEW and Lucent are not obligated to accept any recommendations made by the committee or any of the appointees.
The recommendations will be prepared and presented by the joint committee to the National Bargainers no later than June 1, 2005 for the parties' review and consideration. There will be no change in the administration or intent of the program unless the recommendations by the Joint Committee, or part of, are agreed to in writing by the National Bargainers of the (3) three parties: CWA, IBEW. and Lucent Technologies, Inc.
315
LTP OVERSIGHT AND REVIEW BOARD November 1.2004
Mr. Ralph V. Maty, Jr., Vice President, CWA Mr. Troy A. Johnson. International Representative. IBEW
LTP Oversight and Review Board
This will confirm our understanding reached during 2004 Bargaining that the Unions and the Company, recognizing the proven advantages of continuing to simplify administrative processes and other improvements concerning the Lucent Transfer and Rehire Program (LTP/LRS) agree that:
The LTP/LRS Review Board will seek ways to address the following subjects:
--
$11,440.08
Administrative support approximately 1 hour per month
1. 1 hour per month X 91 months = 91 hours 2. 91 hours X $45 = $4,095
Miscellaneous expenses in manpower and supplies in connection with data entry, problem resolution, remittance efforts to the Union, general maintenance of processes and documentation amount to approximately $3,000 for the term of the MOU.
Total estimated cost from November 1, 2004 to May 26, 2012 $4,095 + $3,000 = $7,095
319
MANAGED CARE PROGRAM COORDINATORS AND ERC/LTP COORDINATORS
November 1, 2004
Mr. Ralph V. Maly, Jr., Vice President. CWA Mr. Troy A. Johnson, International Representative, IBEW
Managed Care Program Coordinators and ERC/LTP Coordinators
This will confirm our discussions and agreement reached in 2004 Bargaining, that the 2 (two) Managed Care Program Coordinator positions will continue during the term of this agreement. The CWA and the IBEW will each select one person to fill the Managed Care Program Coordinator position. In addition the ERC/LTP Coordinator positions will also continue for the term of this agreement with the number of ERC/LTP Coordinators to be determined by the parties.
When a Coordinator vacates a position, the parties may agree to a period of overlap between such Coordinator and his/her replacement, if necessary to insure continuity and the appropriate transfer of knowledge.
The parties agree the job duties and responsibilities for the ERC/LTP Coordinator and the Managed Care Program Coordinator should be reviewed to assure they reflect the current environment. A joint committee of not more than two (2) union appointees (one each from the CWA and IBEW. respectively) and not more than two (2) from the Company shall complete the review no later than April 1,2005.
The pay associated with these titles will be an annual rate of $62,504 ($30.05 per hour) and a pension band of 125 for any and all such individuals. Other terms and conditions associated with these positions are as follows:
--
Attachment 17 Attachment 18 Attachment 19
Service Bridging Rules - 2003 Ad Hoc Pension Increase Letter - 2003 Dental Expense Plan for Occupational Employees 2003 Prescription Drug Plan Education Letter - 2003 Managed Care Plan Education Letter - 2003 Funds for AIliance/ETOP Distribution Program (FAED) Administration - 2003 Dispute Resolution Procedure and Letter - 2003 Recognition Award Programs CWA - 1998 Recognition Award Programs I B E W - 1998 Joint Health Care Committee -1998 Employee Assistance Program (EAP) - 1998 Academic Awards Letter - 1998 Tuition Assistance Letter - 1998 Lucent Transfer Program (LTP) - 1998 Lucent Career Transition Option Program (LCTOP) 1998 Extended Compensation Participant in Alliance or ETOP Letter-1998 Employee Resource Centers (The Program Description)- 1998 Work Place of the Future - 1 9 9 8 Extension of Constructive Relationship Trials - 1 9 9 8 Memorandum of Understanding Regarding Neutrality
and Consent Election - 1998
322
Attachment 20 Attachment 21.1 Attachment 21.2 Attachment 22 Attachment 23 Attachment 24 Attachment 25.1
Attachment 25.2
Attachment 26
Trial Mail Ballot-1998 Union Management Relations CWA - 1998 Union Management Relations IBEW-1998 Drug Testing -1998 Standing Joint Subcommittee on Testing - 1998 Technology Change Committee -1998 April 19. 2001 Memorandum Of Agreement - CWA {Merrimack Valley Only) February 19. 2001 Memorandum Of Agreement IBEW Pension Asset Transfer and Special Social Security Supplement Letter - September 24, 2003
/s/William L Schecter Workforce Relations Vice President
/s/ Ralph V. Maly, Jr. Vice President, CWA
/si Troy A. Johnson International Representative. IBEW
323
Attachment 1 2003 National Memorandum of Understanding LUCENT TECHNOLOGIES INC. PENSION PLAN (applicable section) SERVICE BRIDGING RULES The Lucent Technologies Pension Plan shall be amended to replace the requirement that an employee complete three years of continuous service after the temiination of an absence in order for the employee's pre-absence service to be counted as part of the employee's Term of Employment with the requirement that the employee complete two years of continuous service after temiination of an absence in order for the employee's pre-absence service to be counted as part of the employee's Term of Employment. Provided however, that an employee who has received a mandatory or elective lump sum distribution must repay such distribution in accordance with the Plan terms in order for his or her service to be bridged. Such amendment shall be effective on March 1, 2003, so that any employee who has completed two years of post absence consecutive service as of March 1, 2003 shall have his or her former service bridged as of that date.
324
January 9, 2003
Attachment 2 2003 National Memorandum of Understanding AD HOC PENSION INCREASE
Mr. Robert G. Richhart, Administrative Assistant to Vice President, CWA Mr. Troy A. Johnson, International Representative, IBEW
Gentlemen:
Ad Hoc Pension Increase
In recognition of the concerns of our retired employees regarding their pension benefits, this letter records our mutual understanding that the Company and the Unions are willing to discuss the feasibility of an ad hoc pension increase. We agree that such discussions will not reopen any issues related to other features of the pension plan or other items agreed upon in the 2003 Memorandum of Understanding.
--
National Memorandum Attachment 4
2003 National Memorandum of Understanding
PRESCRIPTION DRUG PROGRAM EDUCATION January 9, 2003 Mr. Robert G. Richhart, Administrative Assistant to Vice President, CWA Mr. Troy A. Johnson, International Representative, IBEW Gentlemen: Re: Prescription Drug Plan Education The parties acknowledge that a major focus of the JHCC is to develop communication strategies designed to promote a greater awareness among employees of being value conscious health care consumers. As part of this focus, the JHCC will discuss and sponsor an educational effort for active and retired employees with respect to the use of the mail order plan and generic drugs. Sincerely,
/s/ William L. Schecter Workforce Relations vice President Concurred:
Is/ Robert G. Richhart Administrative Assistant to Vice President, CWA
Attachment 5
Mr. Robert G. Richhart. Administrative Assistant to Vice President, CWA Mr. Troy A. Johnson, International Representative, IBEW
Re: Managed Care Plan Education
The parties acknowledge that a major focus of the JHCC is to develop communication strategies designed to promote a greater awareness among employees of being value conscious health care consumers. As pad of this focus, the JHCC will discuss and sponsor educational efforts whereby the JHCC will work with the vendors to foster communication with physicians about the use of the mail order plan and generic drugs.
/s/ Robert G. Richhart Administrative Assistant to Vice President, CWA
326
National Memorandum Attachment 6
2003 National Memorandum of Understanding LUCENT CAREER TRANSITION OPTION PROGRAM (LCTOP) Funds for the Alliance/ETOP Distribution Program (FAED) Administration Disbursement of FAED funds will be subject to the following:
Of the $2,500 available for each eligible employee, a maximum of $1,000 may be used for equipment, tools and supplies required for training, upon proof of enrollment in a program in a regionally accredited institution. Of the $5,000 available for each eligible employee under the terms of the Memorandum of Understanding dated February 19, 2001 (IBEW) or the Memorandum of Understanding dated April 19, 2001 (CWA), a maximum of $2,000 may be used for equipment, tools and supplies required for training, upon proof of enrollment in a program in a regionally accredited institution.
January 9, 2003 Mr. Robert G. Richhart, Administrative Assistant to Vice President. CWA Dear Mr. Richhart: Re: Funds for the Alllance/ETOP Distribution Program (FAED) Administration This will confimi our agreement that for the life of the 2003 Memorandum of Understanding. Lucent agrees to establish an account with the FAEO vendor (currently The Alliance) to pre-fund FAED expenditures on behalf of CWA represented Lucent employees. The initial pre-funded amount will be $100,000. Additional funding will be deposited as needed. Sincerely,
/s/ William L. Schecter Workforce Relations Vice President - Concurred: /s/ Robert G. Richhart Administrative Assistant to Vice President, CWA
330
National Memorandum Attachment 7
MANAGEMENT PERFORMING BARGAINING UNIT WORK DISPUTE RESOLUTION PROCEDURE
In support of the objectives of the parties to establish a more constructive relationship, to address the Company's competitive concerns and to address the Unions' concerns about movement of work outside the Bargaining Unit, the Company and Unions hereby agree that the following shall apply to all bargaining units with the exception of Installation; but including CWA - 23 Appendix 5 Cockeysville and Appendix 7 - CARA:
1)
National Bargaining Unit Work Committee:
a. The parties agree to a National Bargaining Unit Work Committee and a third party dispute resolution process as outlined below.
b. The Committee shall consist of four (4) members, one (1) of whom shall be from the Communications Workers of America, one (1) from the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers and two (2) from the Company. One (1) member from the Company and one (1) member from the CWA or the IBEW shall be sufficient to transact the business of the Committee on any issue relating to their respective members.
c. The Committee's duties shall be to address issues arising under this agreement, scheduling and administration of the third party process, administration of the selection process for the third party and to assist in administering placement of work back into the bargaining unit if it is determined to be bargaining unit work by the third party. In the event there is no agreement by the Committee, the Union may proceed, with notification to the Company, to the neutral third party under this dispute resolution procedure.
d. The Committee may conduct joint job evaluations in conjunction with disputes pending before it. If the Company disagrees with a joint job evaluation the Union may conduct one on their own.
e. The Committee shall meet quarterly or as requested by either party in person or by teleconference.
2)
Bargaining Unit Dispute Resolution Process:
There shall be a Bargaining Unit Work Dispute Resolution Process which shall include the following:
a) General:
i. The process will apply to new and changed MA1 through MA5 or equivalent jobs/work in the Management Pay Plan or successor titles. TA and Occupational Non-represented employees or equivalent jobs/work in the Management Pay Plan or their respective successor titles. New or changed jobs include the assignment of work moved in whole or in part from the bargaining unit
ii. Incidental duty disputes are to be processed through the normal grievance procedure. (Work performed by non-bargaining unit employees with no permanent intent.)
iii. The parties understand overlap; however it is not the intent of management to systematically eliminate bargaining unit jobs by assuming bargaining unit work.
iv. A third party dispute resolution process will be used.
b) Notification to the Union:
i. Discussion between Workforce Relations and the National Union in a timely manner.
ii. The Company shall make every reasonable effort to provide advance written notice and documentation to the National Union of any newly created jobs or of its determination to move or assign work from a bargaining unit employee to an employee in paragraph 2(a)(1) above; provided,
332
however, that nothing herein shall require the Company to delay the implementation of any operational or staffing plan.
In the event that circumstances are such that there is new work assigned to an employee in paragraph 2(a)(1) above, the Company shall make every reasonable effort to provide advance written notice and documentation to the National Union provided, however, that nothing herein shall require the Company to delay the implementation of any operational or staffing plan.
It is understood that simply because the Company has notified the Union of its determination to move the work the Union may or may not be in agreement with such move. The Union reserves the right to contest any movement of work under this agreement.
Management Job Evaluators' (MJE) and Occupational Job Evaluators' (OJE) involvement and education and MJE's and OJE's alignment
Internal Workforce Relations review process to support this initiative.
Discovery Process (Union/Company discuss their respective positions).
One step grievance procedure for applicable disputes at the National Level.
Third Party Process
--
New Recognition Award Programs
The parties recognize that it may be in their mutual interest to negotiate new recognition award programs during the period of the 1998 National Memorandum. Accordingly, the parties agree that, should the Company or the Union seek to negotiate new programs during the period of the 1998 National Memorandum, the initiating party shall notify the other party of its intention to open discussions. It is anticipated that such notice to the Union shall be made through the applicable Business Group/Division Planning Council at least sixty (60) days prior to a proposed meeting date. Thereafter, the Company and the Union shall work together to design and negotiate an agreed upon program that will meet the needs of the Company and the employees. Should the parties reach agreement, the program shall be implemented upon a mutually agreed date.
For purposes of this 1998 National Memorandum, "Recognition Award Program s" shall be deemed to include cash awards, gift certificates or other means of compensation in excess of $50 to any employee in recognition of individual or group performance within a Business Group or Division or in recognition of the performance of the entire Business Group or Division.
tt is the intention of the parties to jointly design programs that achieve the mutual goals of the Union and the Company.
National Memorandum All existing negotiated Recognition Award Programs shall remain in effect, unless otherwise agreed, in accordance with their terms. Very truly yours, /s/ M. R. Lewis Labor Relations, V.P. Concurred: /s/ R. V. Maly Assistant to the Vice President, CWA
338
Attachment 9
1998 National Memorandum of Understanding
JOINT HEALTH CARE COMMITTEE
The Company and CWA and IBEW agree to continue their efforts to improve access to quality health care for bargaining unit members and to manage the cost of Lucent's medical benefits through the maintenance of cost effective health care programs. The Joint Health Care Committee (JHCC), formerly known as the Joint Health Care Cost Containment Committee (JHCCCC), will be continued, and will be responsible for overseeing the implementation, expansion and on-going monitoring of the Managed Care Programs (Point of Service), Mental and Health Chemical Dependency Networks and Prescription Drug Networks) of the Medical Expense Plan for Occupational Employees with respect to members of the bargaining units covered by the 1998 National Memorandum.
A major focus of the JHCC will be to develop communication strategies designed to promote a greater awareness among employees of being value conscious health care consumers.
JHCC Members The JHCC will contain four (4) appointees from the Unions and four (4) from the Company, including members with benefits, health, and labor expertise. The JHCC members will analyze issues which arise concerning the managed care programs of the Medical Expense Plan and using consensus, will develop solutions to the issues.
JHCC Responsibilities The JHCC is responsible for assuring successful implementation and continued operation of a quality health care program for current bargaining unit members.
The JHCC will be a forum for addressing and resolving issues involved in the implementation and ongoing monitoring and evaluation of the managed cared programs of the Medical Expense Plan for Occupational Employees. To accomplish these objectives the JHCC will:
review and comment on bid specifications for the Managed Care Programs of the Medical Expense Plan for Occupational Employees, provide input on who should be invited to bid, meet with various vendors as they make clarifying presentations on their programs and capabilities, attend briefings on the outcome
339
of the bid analysis, and make recommendations on the selection of the carrier to senior management. In addition, the JHCC will have access to the Master Contracts between Lucent Technologies and the earners which administer the POS networks covering the occupational employees. Such access is contingent upon each JHCC member executing a confidentiality agreement. It is understood that such access will-encompass ail information that Lucent is legally permitted to disclose.
develop and agree to a system of standards and guidelines by which POS network operations and performance are to be gauged. Standards and guidelines are to include quality health care providers, utilization management, quality assurance, employee satisfaction and management and administrative capability. Such standards and guidelines may include compliance with an accreditation program performed by an independent, outside organization with experience in evaluating managed care programs.
monitor and evaluate POS network performance according to agreed upon standards on a regular basis.
deliberate on systematic problems relating to POS network administration in order to resolve those problems across all network sites.
advise the Company to cancel contracts for POS networks which do not conform to or comply with standards and guidelines developed by the JHCC.
identify perceived problem areas and develop and implement solutions to enhance the adequacy, efficiency and effectiveness of the POS networks.
review and evaluate POS network performances, policies and procedures (including point of service managed care network operations and related administrator performance) in order to assess effectiveness and efficiency of the program.
--
a reasonable period of time with a reasonable effort by the network administrator, the JHCC may then evaluate other Company-sponsored point of service managed care operations in the same geographic area and their administrative performance, whether or not occupational employees participate in such other arrangements on the same matters as the evaluation of occupational plan network area operations was based.
Based on any such review and evaluation, the JHCC may recommend to the Company to change an existing occupational POS network plan administrator in that area to an administrator that presently administers a network under any other medical plan sponsored by the Company in that area. If the Company adopts such recommendation, it shall have, if it deems necessary to effectuate such change, at least one full calendar year to implement such change.
recommend changes in administrative procedures in order to improve the quality, efficiency and effectiveness of the Managed Care Programs.
review any evaluations and reports (e.g., NCQA/HEDIS) relating to the POS programs of the Medical Expense Plan for Occupational Employees. The purpose of the reviews and evaluations is to identify problem areas, to support educational efforts, to determine the quality and cost effectiveness of the plans and programs, and to make recommendations to the Company and to the bargainers on policies and procedures to improve the plans and programs.
recommend administrative guidelines to support methods of interventions to reduce risk factors associated with chronic disease. Monitor and evaluate the success of such interventions. All information and records of a personal and confidential nature related to these administrative guidelines and procedures shall be
341
kept confidential by those responsible for the guidelines and shall not be shared with anyone other than those with a need to know for a purpose related to the administration of the guidelines and related procedures.
recommend strategies to improve the delivery, quality of care and service provided bargaining unit employees under the Managed Care Programs.
develop a consumer information strategy to include POS networks and HMO's under the Medical Expense Plan for Occupational Employees.
develop strategies and recommendations for expanding POS network services under the Medical Expense Plan for Occupational Employees; addressing, for example, items such as voluntary opt in and competing networks.
monitor the overall activity of the Third Party Medical Claims Process which will include receipt of periodic reports on the results of this process.
Consultants and Advisors The parties will continue to elicit the best professional advice both from medical and benefit specialists within the Company and Unions and from recognized outside independent experts/to assist in interpreting the data on Lucent's health costs.
Network Coordinators TheCompanyagrees to continue to fund for the period of the 1998 Memorandum of Understanding two (2) representatives, one (1) from the CWA and one (1) from the IBEW, to work with the Company in the introduction and on-going maintenance of the POS programs under the Medical Expense Plan for Occupational Employees.
342
National Memorandum Attachment 10
1998 National Memorandum of Understanding EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM (EAP) The Company agrees to continue for the duration of the 1998 Memorandum of Understanding, a Company-wide Employee Assistance Program (EAP) which will provide assistance in dealing with alcoholism, drug abuse, emotional illness and other medical/behavioral problems. The Program will continue to utilize qualified professionals including employees who have a thorough knowledge of the work place environment and of the services offered by EAP. Lucent and the Unions agree to maintain, for the duration of the 1998 National Memorandum of Understanding, a national advisory committee to be known as the EAP Joint National Oversight Committee, to foster continued cooperation between Lucent and the Unions in the provision of assistance to those experiencing medical and/or behavioral problems. The Committee shall consist of four (4) Lucent representatives and four (4) Union representatives, two (2) appointed by the CWA and two (2) appointed by the IBEW. The Committee shall meet from time to time as required, but at least three (3) times per year. The purposes of the meetings shall be to: (a) Review the effectiveness of the Employee Assistance Program; (b) Make appropriate recommendations to improve the Employee Assistance Program; and (c) Engage in such other activities as the Committee determines will improve the Employee Assistance Program
343
Attachment 11 1998 National Memorandum of Understanding ACADEMIC AWARDS
May 31,1998
Mr. R. V. Maly, Assistant to the Vice President. CWA Mr. F. P. Possinger, President, System Council EM-3, IBEW Mr. R. F. Morrison, Chairman, System Council T-3. IBEW
Academic Awards
This wilt confirm our agreement regarding the eligibility of a child of a former employee to continue to receive previously awarded scholarship support under the Academic Awards Program.
In those situations where the union has grieved the Company's action in dismissing an employee for cause, and a child of that employee has been previously awarded a scholarship under the Academic Awards Program, the Company agrees to continue to provide such scholarship support for a period not to exceed six months from the date of the employee's dismissal.
The parties agree that any grievance and/or arbitration relating to the dismissal shall be processed as expeditiously as possible under the appropriate collective bargaining agreement and shall be concluded within six (6) months from the date of the dismissal.
344
If the former employee is reinstated as a result of such dispute, then the dependent will continue to participate in the program. Otherwise, the dependent will be disqualified from further participation in the Academic Awards Program.
Is/ M. R. Lewis Workforce Relations, V.P.
isl R. V. Maty Assistant to the Vice President, CWA
/s/ F. P. Possinger
/si R. F. Morrison
President, System Council EM-3, Chairman, System Council T-3,
IBEW
345
Attachment 12 1998 National Memorandum of Understanding TUITION ASSISTANCE
Mr. R. V. Maty, Assistant to the Vice President, CWA Mr. F. P. Possinger, President. System Council EM-3, IBEW Mr. R. F. Morrison, Chairman. System Council T-3. IBEW
Tuition Assistance
The Company and the Unions agree that tuition assistance to occupational employees is an integral and important aspect of the overall Lucent Technologies employee developmental process.
--
LUCENT TRANSFER PROGRAM (LTP) The parties agree to the following in respect to the Lucent Transfer Program (LTP) during the life of the 1998 Agreement.
1 PURPOSE
(a) The LTP provides Eligible Employees an opportunity to request new career opportunities on a current or future basis and provides surplus employees with increased opportunity to continue employment with Lucent. Temporary employees and non-payroll workers are excluded from the program. All employee movement under the LTP is voluntary through a self-nomination process and should not be construed to be a force adjustment, force rearrangement, assignment or reassignment initiated by the Company.
(b) The LTP also provides former employees who were laid off by the Company with recall rights, or who left under a Facility Closing Program (FCP), or employees who left the Company because of an authorized hardship or a Lucent trailing spouse condition an opportunity to nominate for openings for up to three (3) years from the date of termination.
(c) This plan does not replace any existing recall rights to which former employees may be entitled in accordance with applicable local labor agreements, but the rehiring of a former employee under the LTP satisfies the company's recall obligation.
(d) The LTP does not replace any contractual internal movement of personnel procedures contained in applicable collective bargaining agreements. As to those bargaining units, the LTP supplements those movement of personnel procedures.
2 DEFINITIONS
(a) Basically Qualified
An employee who meets the minimum qualifications for a given title as specified in the LTP job brief.
(b) Career Placement
348
The placement of an Eligible Employee who is seeking a career change.
(c) Career Rehire Placement
The placement through the LTP of a former regular full-time or regular part-time occupational employee who is seeking a position with the Company.
(d) Demotion
Movement from an employee's current Level Equalization Group to a position in a Level Equalization Group of a lower numeric value.
(e) Eligible Employees
Regular full-time and part-time occupational employees and full-time and part-time term employees assigned to work locations in the U.S. and covered by this Agreement. The Company may extend eligibility to non-represented occupational employees assigned to work locations in the U.S.
(f) Force Freeze
A temporary limit or prohibition of occupational movement through the LTP.
(g) Lateral
Movement from an employee's current Level Equalization Group to a position in the same Level Equalization Group.
(h) Local Placement Area (LPA)
A geographic area consisting of one (1) or more cities grouped together to allow employees greater flexibility in requesting information on positions in an area of interest through the LTP .
(i) Placement Request
A request for consideration for an LTP vacancy. The request may be for either Career or Surplus Placement. Career Placement Requests may be for specific vacancies or for future vacancies by title or level and location. Surplus Placement Requests are for specific vacancies only.
(j) Promotion
349
Movement from an employee's current Level Equalization Group to a position in a Level Equalization Group of a higher numeric value.
(k) Surplus Placement
The placement of a regular full-time or regular part-time occupational employee who has been identified surplus and has submitted a Surplus Placement Request.
(I) Surplus Rehire Placement
The reemployment of a former regular full-time or regular part-time occupational employee who has submitted a Surplus Placement Request and is placed during his/her minimum surplus eligibility period.
(m) Time-ln-Locatlon
The minimum number of months that an employee must serve in a location to be eligible for voluntary movement.
(n) Tlme-ln-Title and Grade
The minimum number of months an occupational employee must serve in a specific job title and job grade to be eligible for voluntary movement.
ELIGIBILITY
(a) Active Eligible Employees
(1) After local movement of personnel procedures have been applied, the LTP provides the means by which active Eligible Employees may request consideration for transfer to occupational positions within and between the bargaining units which are covered by this Agreement.
--
recall obligations have been met. the Company shall have the option to promote from within the immediate work group of the C Level manager initiating the job vacancy, without regard to Time-in-Title and Grade or Time-in-Location criteria provided the employee meets the selection criteria of better/basic tests, skills and seniority, in that order.
(5) Eligible, occupational employees, including former employees, not test qualified for positions being sought via the LTP will be provided the opportunity to take such test(s) in the same order of consideration applicable to filling job vacancies subject to the availability of testing resources and the job vacancy activity rate for the position(s) being sought. Within each step of the order of consideration if there are more requests for a specific test than can be accommodated on the test schedule, employees requesting the test will be scheduled in seniority order, most senior first..
(6) Voluntary Rehire candidates will be subject to the same selection criteria as other non surplus candidates, but subject to hiring authorization.
7 WAGE TREATMENT/PROTECTION
Wage Treatment for employees for movement through the Lucent Transfer Program within and between bargaining units:
(a) Wage Treatment: An employee's new Standard Rate will be determined as follows:
(1) Employees who move within or between collective bargaining agreements and within the same wage table to another location where a different wage area is applicable shall have their Standard Rate adjusted to conform to the schedule in the new locality.
(2) Employees who move to a different wage schedule with fixed periodic steps;
(i) Promotion - move from present Standard Rate to a whole step above the nearest step on the new schedule
359
National Memorandum (ii) Lateral - move from present Standard Rate to nearest step on new schedule insuring no loss in pay (iii) Demotion - move from present Standard Rate to the nearest step on new schedule insuring no gain in pay
(3) Employees who move to a wage schedule with no fixed periodic steps shall be placed in the new wage range at the same Standard Rate as their old schedule.
(4) In no event shall an employee's new Standard Rate be above the maximum rate of the new schedule.
(5) Local collective bargaining agreements may have specific wage treatment provisions affecting the rate of an employee moving from one collective bargaining agreement to a title in another collective bargaining agreement.
(b) Wage Protection Allowance Surplus Employees moving through the LTP who receive a reduction in their rate of pay (whether through an Promotion, Lateral or Demotion) shall have their rate of pay reduced over a period of time based on the difference between the Adjusted Rate of the old assignment and the Standard Rate of the new assignment. These reductions in pay are effective at specific periods following the effective date of the new assignment, as shown below:
360
Number of weeks after effective date of the assignment
0-10YearsN.es. Weeks 1 thru 4 Weeks 5 thru 8 Weeks 9 thru 12 Weeks 13 & thereafter
10-15 YearsN.C.S. Weeks 1 thru 30 Weeks 31 thru 34 Weeks 35 thru 36 Weeks 39 & thereafter
15 Years N.C.S. and over Weeks 1 thru 56 Weeks 57 thru 60 Weeks 61 thru 64 Weeks 65 & thereafter
Reduction to be applied
No reduction 1/3 reduction 2/3 reduction Full reduction
8 RELOCATION EXPENSES
(a) Occupational employees, shall bear any costs and expenses associated with relocation under the Career Placement features of the LTP, unless the employee is surplus at the time the Career Placement job offer is accepted.
(b) A former occupational employee shall bear any costs and expenses associated with relocation under Career Rehire Placement features of the LTP.
(c) A Surplus Employee who accepts a position within his/her current LPA shall bear any costs and expenses associated with relocation under the LTP.
(d) A former occupational employee who accepts a position within his/her current LPA under the Surplus Rehire Ptacement features of the LTP shall bear any costs and expenses associated with relocation under the LTP.
361
(e) A Surplus Employee or Surplus Rehire candidate who accepts a position that is outside his/her LPA is eligible for a lump sum relocation allowance provided the new reporting location exceeds thirty-five (35) road miles from the employee's old reporting location, and is further in road miles from the employee's current residence than the old reporting location.
(f) Provided the eligible employee elects to relocate his/her residence within six (6) months from the effective date of the transfer, the allowance will be the lesser of:
(1) the termination allowance for which they would have been eligible upon layoff, with a minimum relocation allowance of $2500.or
(2) $14,000.
(g) An employee who meets the above criteria and elects not to relocate his/her residence, shall be entitled to receive a one-time lump sum allowance of $1,500 in lieu of such moving expenses provided this election is made within six (6) months of the date of transfer.
. (h) Surplus employees who are placed via the LTP Surplus or Career Placement Program, meet the LTP relocation criteria, and are compensated for actually relocating their residence, shall be offered the opportunity to move back to the former location with relocation compensation for the lesser of:
(1) the termination allowance for which they would have been eligible upon layoff, or
if the following conditions are met:
(i) the employee is laid off at the new site within three (3) years of placement; and
(ii) the employee relocates back to the original geographic location; and
(iii) the employee does not qualify for any other Lucent provided relocation compensation program.
362
9 OVERSIGHT AND REVIEW BOARD
(a) The Company and the Unions will establish a Joint LTP Oversight and Review Board. This Board will be comprised of two (2) CWA representatives, two (2) IBEW representatives and two (2) representatives from the Company. The responsibilities of the Board will include:
(1) monitoring the ongoing operation of the LTP ,
(2) analyzing overall LTP results, and
(3) addressing concerns raised as to the staffing of positions through the LTP.
(b) The Board shall meet on a regular basis, but not less than once each quarter.
(c) The Communications Workers of America and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers shall each appoint one (1) person to be the LTP Board Coordinator whose duties shall include assisting the Union members of the LTP Review Board in preparing cases that were not resolved in the appropriate grievance procedure. Additional appropriate duties will be identified.
(d) The Company's decision made pursuant to the LTP shall be subject to the grievance procedure contained in any applicable local collective bargaining agreement. Issues not resolved in such grievance procedure may be presented to the Joint LTP Oversight and Review Board for final and binding resolution. Issues concerning the Company's decision involving the placement of LTP Rehire candidates may be presented directly to the Joint LTP Oversight and Review Board which shall have the sole responsibility for final and binding resolution. Neither the LTP, nor its administration shall be subject to arbitration.
363
LEG TIME-IN-TITLE/GRADE AND T1ME-IN-LOCAT10N
Level / Grade / Title
000A 000B OOOC OOOD 001 002 OOAA 032 033 034 035 036 037 038 039 040 060 095 096 097 155 158 161 163 181 182 631 641 651 661 671 681 691 ACES ACSS ACST AR BL401-Bldg.Atten. {P/T)
364
Level Equalization
Group
2 3 Not Assigned Not Assigned Not Assigned Not Assigned 2 2 2 2 3 3 3 4 4 4 Not Assigned Not Assigned Not Assigned Not Assigned Not Assigned Not Assigned Not Assigned Not Assigned Not Assigned Not Assigned 2 3 3 4 4 5 5 4 4 4 5 1
Time InTitle/ Grade
12 24 NA NA NA NA 12 12 12 12 24 24 36 36 36 36 NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA 12 24 24 36 36 36 36 24 24 24 24
9
Time In 1 ftffitlftn
--
Regular full-time and part-time occupational employees covered by this 1998 National Memorandum are eligible for the provisions of LCTOP. The provisions of LCTOP are not intended to alter, modify or eliminate the force adjustment provisions of the local contracts.
If the Company notifies the Union in writing of a surplus which will necessitate layoffs, the Company may, to the degree necessary to resolve the surplus, in order of seniority, offer employees in the surplus universe the opportunity to elect one (1) of the following options, provided they meet the conditions of the option selected.
1. Special Leave Program, or
2. Optional Termination Pay, or
3. Extended Compensation Option, and/or
4. Transition Leave of Absence
1 Special Leave Program
(a) The Company will continue to provide the Special Leave Program (SLP) for.eligible occupational employees. This program is designed to encourage the development of individual skills, enable employees to pursue career changes and/or personal goals and to allow the Company to alleviate force imbalances, while at the same time maintaining ties between the Company and the employee.
(b) To be eligible for a SLP, an employee must meet the following requirements:
be a regular full-time or a regular part-time employee (i.e., no temporary, occasional or term employees are eligible), and have at least five (5) years of net credited service, and
370
be in a universe which is the subject of a surplus declaration.
(c) The SLP is without pay and shall be for a period of not less than nine (9) nor more than twenty-four (24) consecutive months. The SLP may be extended beyond its original termination date, provided it did not previously exceed twenty-four (24) months in duration, in a minimum of three (3) month increments but in no event beyond twenty-four (24) months.
(d) Eligible employees may elect SLP during the applicable SLP enrollment window, provided the election precedes the employee's off payroll date and such election shall be in lieu of termination pay. Employees who choose not to return to work at the conclusion of the SLP will not be granted termination payments. Employees shall be guaranteed reinstatement at the end of the leave to a job of like status and pay. However, employees on SLP who, but for the leave, would have been laid off and who complete the leave and return to the payroll at the end of the leave will be terminated and receive termination pay upon their return to the payroll. Employees declared surplus upon returning to the active payroll will be given normal surplus treatment.
(e) Service credit for the period of the SLP shall be granted to those individuals who return to the Company payroll at the end of the leave, except that such credit shall not be granted or recognized for force adjustment purposes and pension purposes (including eligibility, benefit accrual and calculation); however, the period of the leave shall be counted in the years of service to determine termination pay that the employee may receive thereafter.
(f) Except as indicated below, while on the SLP, an employee shall be covered, pursuant to the same conditions and to the same extent as a comparable employee active on the payroll, by the following benefit plans and programs:
Death Benefits - Company continues coverage for the period of the leave,
Basic Group Life Insurance - Company pays the premium for the period of the leave,
Medical Expense/Managed Care - Company provides coverage for the period of the leave,
HMO - Company pays premium up to the same amount it pays for company medical plan,
371
Dental/DMO - Company provides coverage for the period of the leave, Vision - Company provides coverage for the period of the leave, Legal - Company pays premium for period of the leave, Child/Elder Referral - Company provides service for the period of the leave, Supplementary Group Life Insurance - Available at the employee's expense, Dependent Group Life Insurance - Available at the employee's expense, Savings Plan participation is suspended during the leave. Employee obligation under the loan provision continues, Tuition Assistance - Continues under the same guidelines that apply to active employees.
(g) While on SLP, an employee cannot be employed by or render services to Lucent Technologies or any of its affiliates, subsidiaries, joint ventures or entities, any of their competitors, any companies involved in divestiture related mandatory portability or interchange agreements or companies with which there may be an agreement for the interchange of benefit obligations.
2 Optional Termination Pay
(a) Regular full-time or regular part-time occupational employees (not term or temporary employees) who are part of a surplus universe may, to the degree necessary to relieve the surplus and in order of seniority, request Optional Termination Pay on a voluntary basis provided" they have two (2) or more years of net credited service at the time of the request.
(b) An employee who elects this option shall leave the payroll without recall rights on a date determined by the Company and receive any vacation pay to which the employee is entitled plus a lump sum payment calculated using the following table:
372
Optional Termination Pay Schedule
Completed Weeks of
Completed
Years of Svc.
Pay
Years of Svc. Weeks <
11
12
14
--
representative and two (2) representatives appointed by the Company. The Board shall meet on a regular basis but no more frequently than once each quarter.
(2) Grievances under the. Extended Compensation Option, shall be limited to disputes and appropriate remedies regarding the selection or non selection of an Lucent Technologies employee participating in JMC for a JMC assignment, and questions relating to work rules, for which the collective bargaining agreement covering the temporary position to which the employee is assigned shall be controlling.
(3) Neither JMC nor its administration nor any grievance under the review process described above shall be subject to arbitration.
(I) It is further understood that when an employee who is participating in the Extended Compensation Option is not assigned to a JMC assignment, the provisions of the applicable collective bargaining agreement for the position held by the employee immediately prior to assignment to the JMC shall apply to those matters not directly related to the employee's participation in the Extended Compensation Option.
4 Transition Leave of Absence
(a) A Transition Leave of Absence (TLA) is granted to employees voluntarily or .involuntarily separating from the Company under a Lucent Technologies plan or program for reducing force surplus. The TLA option serves as a mechanism for allowing these employees to qualify for a service pension under certain conditions.
(b) An, employee separating (voluntarily or involuntarily) under a Lucent Technologies force surplus plan or program is eligible for a TLA if he/she is within one (1) year of actual age and/or service requirements for service pension eligibility under the Lucent Technologies Pension Plan as of the Company specified separation date (i.e., must meet age and service requirements for pension eligibility no later than the one (1) year calendar anniversary date of the Company specified separation date).
(c) The minimum combination for age/service requirements for TLA eligibility, based on the current service eligibility requirement of the Lucent Technologies Pension Plan and if not otherwise service pension eligible, is as follows:
376
AGE any age
49 54 64
NCS 29 years 24 years 19 years 9 years
The service and age attained during the TLA are counted only for service pension eligibility and not for computing the amount of the service pension.
(d) A TLA shall not exceed one (1) year from the date the leave starts (i.e., leave expires on the calendar date anniversary of the Company specified separation date), but in any case, will end on the earliest of:
(i) the date the eligible employee returns to work for the Company, a Participating Company, a Lucent Controlled Group entity, or any other Lucent Subsidiary or the eligible employee becomes employed by an Interchange Company in which the employee is eligible for portability of service,
(ii) the date the employee attains required age and/or service to become service pension eligible, or
(iii) death of the employee.
(e) The TLA will be canceled effective with the date of (re)hire or death and pension entitlements will be those as of the day before the effective date of the TLA.
5 Involuntary Termination Due To Layoff
(a) Employees involuntarily terminated due to layoff will have the termination payment schedule, as well as the method of payment computed in accordance with the appropriate collective bargaining agreement. In addition, regular full-time and regular part-time employees (not term or temporary employees) who have been involuntarily terminated pursuant to the force adjustment procedures of the applicable collective bargaining agreement and have a minimum of one (1) year net credited service as of the date of termination are eligible for up to $2,500 in funds for certain education, training, out placement and relocation expenses. These funds will be available through the Funds for the Alliance/ETOP Distribution (FAED) program.
377
Attachment 15
1998 National Memorandum of Understanding EXTENDED COMPENSATION PARTICIPANT IN ALLIANCE OR ETOP
May 31.1998
Mr. R. V. Maly, Assistant to the Vice President, CWA Mr. F. P. Possinger, President. System Council EM-3. IBEW Mr. R. F. Morrison, Chairman. System Council T-3, IBEW
--
National Memorandum EMPLOYEE RESOURCE CENTERS
The language contained in the attached document shall replace the existing language pertaining to Employee Resource Centers contained in atl Manufacturing contracts that are supported by the 1998 National Manufacturing and National Units Table and shall be added to the Operations Agreements <CWA and IBEW).
380
EMPLOYEE RESOURCE CENTER PROGRAM
Purpose
1 Lucent Technologies, the Communications Workers of America (CWA), the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, System Council EM-3 {IBEW SC EM-3), and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers. System Council T-3 (IBEW SC T-3) continue to recognize that, where practicable, the provision of certain services assodated with employee training, career development, and various personnel and benefit programs should be made more readily available to employees in the manufacturing environment.
(a) In an effort to achieve this objective, Lucent Technologies and the Unions have agreed to continue to support and fund Employee Resource Centers during the term of the 1998 Agreement.
(b) Each Employee Resource Center will continue to represent strong physical evidence of the joint concern that Lucent Technologies and the Unions have for employees and their welfare, which is manifested by a shared commitment of the parties to jointly administer and staff the Centers.
(c) Each Center will continue to augment services already provided by Lucent Technologies and serve as a means to centralize those information and service resources which most personally affect employees. The role of the Center is to assist employees in making dedsions about future training and career plans, interfadng with various personnel programs and providing assistance and referral for employee benefit issues.
Services
2 The Employee Resource Center will continue to provide services to employees which indude the following:
- education and training; - career and personal counseling; - resource data for local area jobs and skills required; - interface with Lucent Transfer Program and the Facility Closing
Program;
381
- assistance and referral concerning benefit programs;
- other services and counseling deemed to be appropriate by the local Joint Labor-Management Oversight Committee.
(a) It is recognized that certain services provided in the Center are provided for at the location by the Alliance for Employee Growth and Development (Alliance), the Enhanced Training Opportunities Program (ETOP) or Lucent Technologies, it is not intended that such services be duplicated but rather that the Center will centralize and focus the services to facilitate access by employees.
(b) Employees interested in visiting the Employee Resource Center will. upon request, normally be granted reasonable time off with pay during their SCHEDULED DAILY TOUR to visit the Center. However the parties recognize that the job situation may require that such requests be accommodated at a time other than when initially requested.
(c) In recognition of the parties' shared commitment to the joint administration of the Employee Resource Center, such Center will be referred to as the "Lucent Technologies/ ("CWA", "IBEW SC EM-3" or "IBEW SC T-3") Employee Resource Center. This title shall be used in all references to this operation at the location and shall be prominently displayed at the entrance to the Employee Resource Center facility.
Staffing
Each Employee Resource Center will continue to be staffed by a mutually agreed upon number of COMPANY and UNION appointees. The appointment of Employee Resource Center personnel is a joint responsibility of the local Labor-Management Oversight Committee; however both the COMPANY and the UNION are free to select their own representatives.
(a) Represented employees appointed to work in the Center will retain the Occupational Job Classification and wages they were receiving immediately prior to that assignment.
(1) If such an employee subsequently accepts a promotion to another Occupational Job Classification within the bargaining unit, he or she may be retained on the Employee Resource Center assignment. In such case, the employee will be assigned the Occupational Job Classification and wages which would have been applicable on the Occupational Job Classification to which promoted.
382
(2) For movement of personnel purposes, such employees shall be exempt from displacement by surplus employees outside the Employee Resource Center but shall be subject to LAYOFF in accordance with the contract as a result of a lack of work situation in the bargaining unit.
(3) In those instances where the employee would otherwise have been displaced, he or she shall be assigned the Occupational Job Classification and wages which would have been applicable as a result of such displacement.
Structure
The National Employee Resource Center Steering Committee established by Lucent Technologies and the Unions will continue to include two representatives each from the IBEW SC EM-3 and the CWA, and four Lucent Technologies representatives. The members of this Committee shall be appointed by the Chairpersons of the National Manufacturing Bargaining Committees for the CWA, IBEW SC EM-3 and Lucent Technologies. One additional representative from CWA Operations and IBEW SC T-3 will be appointed by their respective chairs.
(a) The Joint National Steering Committee will continue to be responsible for the implementation, coordination and review of Employee Resource Center activities in Manufacturing, Operations, Repair and Distribution, Installation, OSC, Network Reliability Center and Cockeysville. The Committee's specific responsibilities will include:
determining at which locations an Employee Resource Center will be implemented;
establishing the timetable for implementation at designated locations;
determining the staffing level requirements for each Employee Resource Center; except those supporting repair and distribution and material distribution center locations which shall be determined by the National Joint Labor-Management Oversight Committee established in paragraph 4(b),
managing available funds including authorizing the distribution of such funds to cover applicable costs at locations with Employee Resource Centers;
overseeing the services and activities provided by the individual Employee Resource Centers.
383
(b) At each location having an Employee Resource Center, a local Joint Labor-Management Oversight Committee comprised of an equal number of COMPANY and UNION members will be established. For repair and distribution and material distribution center locations, a National Joint Labor-Management Oversight Committee comprised of one CWA and one IBEW System Council T-3 and two Lucent Technologies members shall be established. These committees will coordinate Alliance and ETOP activities at the local/national level and be responsible for the implementation, staffing and administration of the local Employee Resource Center.
Funding the Employee Resource Center
5 The cost of constructing an Employee Resource Center and all ongoing tenant expenses shall continue to be the responsibility of the COMPANY.
(a) The COMPANY will be responsible for the pay and related expenses of those management designated employees who are assigned to work in the Employee Resource Center.
(b) For the period May 31, 1998 through May 31, 2003, inclusive, Lucent Technologies and the Unions agree funds will be made available each month for the Employee Resource Center Program which shall be calculated by multiplying the total number of regular full time IBEW SC EM-3, IBEW SC T-3, and CWA Operations/Manufacturing represented employees on the payroll of the applicable facilities/organizations as of December 31, 1997 by $3.00 for all organizations except Installation, OSC, Network Reliability Center and Cockeysville where the applicable rate shall be $1.50. Annually thereafter, the National Employee Resource Center Steering Committee will review the funding level to determine if an increase in funding is warranted to ensure the efficient operation of the ERC's. If so determined, the funding level in subsequent years will be increased back to the original 1992 level of $3.50. However, the rate for Installation, OSC, Network Reliability Center and Cockeysville shall remain at $1.50. Lucent Technologies shall credit these funds to an account designated for the Program and its activities within fifteen (15) days of the end of each such month.
(c) Each location which has an Employee Resource Center will be periodically reimbursed from this account for the wages and expenses incurred by the represented employees assigned to work in the Employee Resource Center.
384
National Memorandum (d) At the end of calendar years 1998.1999,2000.2001 and 2002 funding
balances in the Program's account which were accrued during any of those years will be carried forward into the ensuing year's account. (e) If, at the expiration of the 1998 Manufacturing and National Units National Memorandum of Understanding, the parties should not agree to continue the Employee Resource Center Program, all outstanding claims to monies on the books of the Program shall be settled and any remaining monies shall be disposed of in such a manner consistent with the purposes of the Program. Reports 6 The Joint National Steering Committee will publish an Annual Report summarizing the status of Employee Resource Centers, the funds expended and the manner in which the funds were utilized.
385
Attachment 17
1998 National Memorandum of Understanding WORKPLACE OF THE FUTURE
Lucent, CWA and IBEW reaffirm their commitment to the basic goals and principles of Workplace of the Future (WPOF) as expressed in past contracts. The parties also recognize that WPOF at Lucent needs to be revitalized in order to achieve its goals. All parties see the need for significant culture change at all levels of their respective organizations in order to achieve greater responsiveness and involvement, and for shared involvement of the Unions and management from the beginning of this change process. They therefore agree on the need to jointly re-examine and renew the approach for WPOF in order to move it to a new level.
This re-examination wilt be pursued separately from the 1998 collective bargaining process. It will begin within six weeks of the ratification of all contracts with a thorough re-evaluation of the process and program structure so far and a joint commitment to future courses of action.
With respect to 1998 bargaining, the parties agree to continue existing language of the Workplace of the Future provisions contained in the 1995 National Memorandum of Understanding between the CWA, IBEW and AT&T. The parties reserve their right to redraft language to reflect their renewed commitment and agreement. The parties will redraft language to reflect their renewed commitment and agreement by the end of 1998.
386
National Memorandum Attachment 18
1998 National Memorandum of Understanding EXTENSION OF CONSTRUCTIVE RELATIONSHIP TRIALS
Mr. R. V. Maly, Assistant to the Vice President, CWA Mr. F. P. Possinger, President, System Council EM-3, IBEW Mr. R. F. Morrison, Chairman, System Council T-3, IBEW
Gentlemen:1
--
The parties also recognize the Unions' goal of growing membership. In order to maintain this perspective and to also avoid unnecessary confrontation, the parties agree that the following principles regarding neutrality and consent election will be applicable to all wholly owned Lucent Business Operating Groups and Divisions throughout the country and shall be the exclusive means by which the Unions, their locals, or individuals acting on their behalf, will conduct an effort to organize non-management employees in the covered Lucent Business Operating Groups or Divisions.
1 Employee Choice
Both the Unions and the Company support and agree with the principle that the decision as to whether or not to become represented by a Union is one that does not belong to either the Union or to the Company. Rather, it is an individual decision that belongs to the employee. With the parties' mutual recognition of this fundamental tenet, the following provisions are intended to establish, encourage, and nurture an environment during a Union organizing drive that will allow employees to choose whether or not to become represented in a fully informed and uncoerced manner. All negotiations concerning appropriate unit, access, conduct, and voting will be performed by local management and local Union officials, i.e., those directly impacted by these discussions. The local Union and management officials may request a meeting with the appropriate Union and Company headquarters representatives at the beginning of this process.
388
2 Neutrality The Company and the Unions agree that an organizing drive should be and will be met by Company conduct that neither helps nor hinders organizing efforts. This statement is consistent with and reinforces the previously established principle of employee choice. The environment is intended to foster employee choice and information communicated by either party should be fact based and not misleading, distorted or disparaging. Neutrality means the following: (a) Management will not be anti-Union nor will the Union be antimanagement.
(b) Management will not advocate that employees should vote against Union representation.
(c) The Union(s) will be afforded reasonable opportunities for access to communicate with employees.
(d) Management may respond to individual employee questions, and may correct inaccurate or misunderstood information by employees.
(e) The Union(s) will be referred to by name and will not be characterized as a "third party" or "outsider".
(f) Any written information distributed to employees by either party relative to the organizing campaign will be simultaneously shared with the other. The parties' communications with employees will be in accordance with this agreement.
(g) Neither party will hire or seek the assistance of consultants who encourage an adversarial relationship.
<h) Neither managers nor Union representatives will be personally attacked, by name or by descriptive reference, in campaign literature or discussions.
(i) Neither the Union nor the Company will be attacked as institutions.
(j) The Company will not conduct "captive" audience meetings.
Allegations of violations of these provisions will be handled via the dispute resolution process contained in this Agreement.
3 Election Procedures
389
The procedures to be followed are listed betow:
(a) The Union must show that a majority of employees in a unit appropriate for collective bargaining have signed show of interest cards indicating their desire for a representation election. The cards must be dated within three months of the date they are presented to the Third Party Neutral (TPN). Cards signed by persons who are no longer employed by Lucent at the time of submission to the TPN will not be valid.
(b) If an election is conducted and the Union is not successful, another election will not be scheduled for twelve months. During this time, no Union organizing campaign for that unit will be permitted.
(c) A majority of those who vote, validated by the TPN, will determine the outcome.
(d) The TPN wilt resolve any issue concerning challenged ballots by following the NLRB's rules and decisions.
4 Time Bound
It is in the interest of both parties that the organizing campaign be conducted expeditiously. The Union is therefore obligated to notify management of its intention to conduct a formal organizing drive before it begins. The date of this notification will "start the dock". The entire campaign, including the consent election, will be concluded in 90 days. It is the intent of the parties that the 90 day time frame will include discussion and agreement on the unit. In the event the parties are unable to agree on the unit, the dispute resolution process set forth below will be utilized and the time period will be extended by the number of days required to reach agreement on the unit, but in no event will the total campaign, including resolution of the scope of the bargaining unit and the consent election process, exceed 120 days. If the employees vote not to be represented, the Union agrees not to initiate another campaign (nor continue the current campaign) in that same work group for 12 months from the date of the conclusion of the campaign. This would not preclude the local union from having contact with the workers in the group outside of the workplace. If the employees vote to be represented, collective bargaining over the terms and conditions of employment will commence within 60 days and any resulting collective bargaining agreement will apply only to the agreed upon unit,
390
5 Informed Decision Both parties agree that employees should be fully informed about all aspects of Union representation. The Union will provide fact-based information to employees as it endeavors to convince prospective members of the merits of being represented by a labor union. Management's rale during this process will include:
(a) responding to individual employee inquiries
(b) explaining the organizing process, including any obligations and responsibilities of the parties
(c) correcting any inaccuracies or misstatements or any employee misunderstandings of information disseminated during the campaign process.
6 Free from Coercion Consistent with the basic tenet of employee choice, the parties want to ensure that employees have expressed their choice from an informed position and are completely free from any coercion by the Company, the Union, or any other persons or entities during any part of this process. One way to ensure this objective is to have an NLRB conducted election. In the alternative, the Company and the Union agree to use a process called "Consent Election". This process will work as follows:
(a) The Unions shall initiate the consent election process by providing to a third party neutral (TPN) proof of support by means of show of interest cards as described in Paragraph 3(a), above. The TPN will then notify Lucent and request a list of names, job titles and work addresses. The Company will furnish the list within three business days. The applicable Union will also be furnished with the list. The "show of interest" cards will clearly state their purpose and that a secret ballot consent election will be conducted to determine the will of the unit. If the TPN determines that the Union(s) has a sufficient show of interest, he/she will schedule a Consent Election process in accordance with this agreement.
(b) The election process will be supervised by a mutually selected TPN, whose role it is to ensure the integrity of the process itself, and will be conducted within two (2) weeks of the submission of the Union's show
391
of interest to the TPN. Employees will be asked to express their individual preference in a secret ballot election. The TPN will count the votes and advise the parties of the outcome. Consistent with Paragraph 3(c) of this agreement, a majority of those who vote will control. Each party may have an observer present when the TPN counts the ballots.
(c) tn all cases, the election process shall take place within 14 days of receipt and verification of the Union's show of interest cards by the TPN. In those cases in which there is no dispute about the composition of the unit, the election process will be held within seven days. The election may be held at the Company location or at a neutral site as agreed by the parties. The cost of the TPN and/or of using a neutral site will be shared equally by the parties.
If there is a dispute as to the composition of the unit, the TPN shall either decide the issue within an additional seven days or order an election as described above with the decision as to the composition of the unit to follow the election within no more than seven days.
7 Access Agreement
As soon as reasonably practicable after a request by the Union(s) for access, local management and Union representatives will meet to discuss the details related to reasonable access to the unit by Union representatives. The Union(s) will be allowed reasonable opportunities for access to Lucent facilities. It is the intent and commitment of the parties that the access agreed upon will not interfere with the operation and other normal and routine business activities, plans and programs of Lucent generally and, specifically, the unit which is the subject of the organizing campaign. Access agreed upon will be in non-working areas and during employee non-working times.
If Lucent and the Union(s) are unable to agree on reasonable access, the TPN will be asked to resolve the issue. Successful access agreements utilized at other Lucent units will be looked to for guidance as to what works and is reasonable. Lucent and the Union(s) commit that they will negotiate an access agreement in an expeditious manner.
8 Dispute Resolution
(a) Questions or disputes arising during the course of an organizing effort within a particular unit of non-represented employees will, in all cases, be addressed first by and between the parties themselves and, in
392
particular, local Lucent management and appropriate Union representatives. It is the intent and desire of Lucent and the Union(s) that such matters be dealt with and are best dealt with by and between the parties themselves, particularly at the local level, without having to resort to the assistance of a third party. It is also agreed, however, that, if every good faith and reasonable effort has been made, but the matter still remains unresolved, the process described below will be utilized.
(b) The TPN will resolve disputes in the manner set forth in this agreement. The TPN must be an active or retired attorney who has experience in, and is familiar with, NLRB procedures and precedents regarding unit determination issues. Either Lucent or the Union(s) can refer a question or dispute, unresolved after good faith efforts have been made to resolve the dispute locally, to the chosen TPN by providing three business days' written notice to both the other party and the TPN. The notice will provide a complete statement of the question or dispute to be addressed and a statement that the parties have attempted in good faith but have been unable to resolve the matter by and between themselves.
(c) If the question or dispute involves a matter related to access (i.e., the nature, event, time, location, individuals involved, etc.), the TPN will fully investigate all relevant facts surrounding the question or dispute. The TPN will then call the parties together and attempt to facilitate resolution of or otherwise mediate the matter.
If, after a good faith attempt at facilitated resolution or mediation, the access question or dispute is still not resolved, the TPN wilt attempt to render an immediate decision, which includes a method or alternative methods of resolving the perceived access problem. However, in no event will the TPN take longer than five (5) days thereafter to render a decision. The decision of the TPN will be final and binding and the parties agree to abide by his/her decision. This process, from the time the TPN is contacted to the time his or her opinion is issued, will not take more than 15 days unless the parties agree otherwise.
393
(d) If the dispute involves the appropriateness of the bargaining unit the Union seeks to organize and the parties are unable to agree, after negotiating in good faith for a reasonable time, upon the description of an appropriate unit for bargaining, the issue of the description of such unit shall be submitted to the TPN and an expeditious hearing shall be conducted. The TPN shall be confined solely to the determination of the appropriate unit for bargaining and shall be guided in such deliberations by the statutory requirements of the National Labor Relations Act and the decisions of the National Labor Relations Board and Appellate reviews of such Board decisions.
<e) Regardless of the type of question or dispute that is submitted to the TPN, the parties will each be given a full opportunity to present their positions and supporting factual information prior to the issuance of any opinion. No written briefs will be submitted. There shall be no ex parte contact with the TPN without the concurrence of all parties. Lucent and the Unions believe that these matters are best handled by and between the parties themselves and resort to a TPN should be necessary in only a limited number of cases.
Lucent and the Union(s) agree that the parties may distribute a decision of the TPN to employees in the selected unit but not outside to the public such as the press.
(0 The parties agree that the process set forth herein shall be the exclusive means for resolving disputes covered by this dispute resolution process, and neither party will utilize any other forum (e.g. NLRB, federal court, etc.) to address issues subject to resolution pursuant to this process.
(g) All expenses resulting from the use of the TPN process shall be shared equally by Lucent and the Union.
9 Acquisitions And Ventures
The parties recognize the rapidly changing nature and structure of the communications equipment industry. Lucent may acquire another entity, it has and may in the future form joint ventures or strategic alliances, may license its brand or technology, or may be a financial investor in other entities. The employees in these entities may be unrepresented, represented in whole or in part by the CWA or IBEW, or represented in whole or in part by some other labor organization. It is not possible to structure a single rule which will apply to all such circumstances and the Company cannot compel other entities to abide by this agreement.
National Memorandum Nevertheless, Lucent will, after an initial transition period of one year following the dosing on an acquisition, and subject to any contrary legal or contractual requirements, apply this Neutrality and Consent Election agreement to any wholly owned subsidiary. 10 Annual Review On an annual basis, the Lucent Vice President of Workforce Effectiveness, the President of the CWA and the President of the IBEW may review whether there has been substantial compliance with the provisions of this Agreement and, if the parties find repeated instances of violations or repeated instances of interference during the period up to the review, may implement a process for recognition based on "card check" to replace elections in all cases or, if not, this Agreement shall continue in effect for the remaining term of the Agreement.
395
Attachment 20 1998 National Memorandum of Understanding TRIAL MAIL BALLOT
Mr. R. V. Maly. Assistant to the Vice President. CWA Mr. F. P. Possinger, President, System Council EM-3, IBEW Mr. R. F. Morrison. Chairman, System Council T-3, IBEW
Trial Mall Ballot
This will confirm our agreement that during the life of this collective bargaining agreement, the Union may request and the Company will agree to trial a Mail Ballot process to replace the Consent Election process in the Neutrality and Consent Election agreement in the 1998 Memo. It is further agreed that this trial will occur in a smaller unit (i.e., SO or fewer employees).
Following this trial, the Union and the Company will meet to review the success of the trial and to consider possible future use of the mail ballot process.
Very truly yours,
/s/ R. V. Maly Assistant to the Vice President, CWA
1st F. P. Possinger President, System Council EM-3, IBEW
Isl R. F. Morrison Chairman, System Council T-3, IBEW
396
National Memorandum Attachment 21.1
1998 National Memorandum of Understanding UNION MANAGEMENT RELATIONS
--
Standing Joint Subcommittee on Testing
This will confirm our understanding reached during 1998 Bargaining that a CWAIBEW-Lucent Technologies standing joint subcommittee on testing will be formed. The subcommittee, to be appointed.by the bargaining chairs, will consist of four (4) representatives from the Unions, two (2) from IBEW and two (2) from CWA, and four (4) representatives from the Company.
Measurement and Selection Systems (M&SS), part of Lucent's corporate human resources organization, is the organization with sole responsibility for the development or selection, validation, and authorization of all tests and policy and procedures used in the selection of candidates for Lucent occupational positions. M&SS is responsible to ensure that such tests meet Federal and professional standards for relevance and non-discrimination.
If the committee identifies a test currently in use which has not been authorized by M&SS, the test will be suspended pending the outcome of a review and report to the committee by M&SS.
At least thirty days prior to implementation, M&SS wilt notify the members of the committee of the intent to implement a new test or to revise a test or critical test score. M&SS will communicate to members of the committee the following pertinent information concerning the test:
the purpose the objective
401
the need for the test or change the title(s) for which it will be a requirement the business groups which will use it
After receiving the information described above, if the committee so requests, a meeting will be held to explore appropriate ways for the Company and the Unions to make available opportunities to assist employees in development of the new skills or job knowledge. The committee will also be expected to identify and recommend ways to maximize the many advantages and resources offered through the Alliance, ETOP, and ERC's in meeting the goals described above.
In addition, the committee may explore other issues with M&SS, including such matters as an apparent low percentage of employees qualifying on a specific test. Where the Committee agrees, a Third Party Neutral (TPN) may be selected to review any disputed new or revised test for relevancy and validity, applying appropriate legal standards. The TPN shall guarantee confidentiality of all tests under review and shall not release test items or scores to any person or entity. The TPN shall make recommendations to the Committee about the disputed test or score. Nothing herein shall prevent the implementation or use of a test during the TPN review.
The committee will meet upon request of the members, but no less than four (4) times a year to review new or revised tests.
/s/ M. R. Lewis Workforce Relations. V.P.
fsi F. P. Possinger
/s/ R. F. Morrison
President, System Council EM-3, Chairman, System Council T-3.
402
National Memorandum Attachment 24
1998 National Memorandum of Understanding TECHNOLOGY CHANGE COMMITTEE
Mr. R. V. Maty, Assistant to the Vice President, CWA Mr. F. P. Possinger, President, System Council EM-3, IBEW Mr. R. F. Morrison, Chairman, System Council T-3, IBEW
Technology Change Committee
This will confirm our understanding that the Technology Change Committee referred to in Attachment A will apply to those Lucent organizations covered by the CWA and IBEW Operations local contracts which do not have an applicable Planning Council in place.
403
National Memorandum It is further acknowledged that one of the responsibilities of the Constructive Relationship Coundl(s) includes reviewing broad technological developments taking place in the industry in order to provide the parties with a deeper understanding of the future impacts of technology on bargaining unit employees and the business. Where appropriate, Lucent subject matter experts will be consulted on such matters.
--
This will confirm our understanding that the Pension Plan provisions, included in the 1998 CWA/IBEW/Lucent National Memorandum of Understanding and inserted below, shall continue in effect in accordance with their original terms during the life of the 2003 MOU.
PENSION ASSET TRANSFER
Effective January 1, 1999, the Company may transfer excess pension assets from the Lucent Technologies Inc. Pension Plan {"Plan") to a separate account which has been established as part of the Plan during each calendar year of the contract. The excess pension assets that are transferred are to be used only to pay qualified current retiree health liabilities (as defined in Section 420(e)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code) for eligible retired occupational employees (and their spouses and eligible dependents). All transferred amounts will be used to pay retiree health liabilities on behalf of retired occupational employees (and their spouses and eligible dependents) directly or through the Lucent Technologies Inc. Represented Employees Postretirement Health Benefits Trust. Following completion of a transfer of excess pension assets, the accrued pension benefits of any participant (including participants who terminated employment during the one-year period ending on the date of transfer) under the Plan shall become nonforfeitable (i.e., 100 percent vested). The transfer of excess pension assets to the separate account and payments therefrom shall be subject to and in accordance with the Internal Revenue Code
407
and the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA").
SPECIAL SOCIAL SECURITY SUPPLEMENT
Effective May 31, 1998, Social Security Supplement payments, under the Lucent Technologies Inc. Pension Plan (the "Plan") that were made available to designated eligible employees who were involuntarily terminated under a force adjustment program during specified periods during the term of the 1995 Memorandum of Understanding shall be made available during the term of this Memorandum of Understanding, with the following changes:
1. Eligibility for the payments under this provision shall be limited to eligible employees who are involuntarily terminated (with less than 30 years of service and at an age under age 55) with service pension eligibility under a force adjustment program at any time during the term of this Memorandum of Understanding.
2. Amount of Social Security Supplement The amount of such Social Security Supplement payments shall equal the amount of the reduction in an employee's monthly annuity payment because of retirement prior to age 55 (but not in excess of an employee's projected Social Security benefit at age 65) and the duration of such payments shall end on the first to occur of the completion of twelve years of payments, the attainment of age 62 or the death of the retired employee.
1st William L. Schecter
Workforce Relations Vice President
/s/ Troy A. Johnson International Representative. IBEW
408
National Memorandum CONTINUE - 1998 MANUFACTURING AND NATIONAL UNITS SUPPLEMENT November 1,2004 Mr. Ralph V. Maly, Jr., Vice President, CWA Mr. Troy A. Johnson. International Representative, IBEW Re: Continuation of the Manufacturing and National Units Supplement to the 1998 National Memorandum of Understanding Items The parties agree that all the provisions in the Manufacturing and National Units Supplement to the 1998 National Memorandum of Understanding that were included in the applicable 2003 collective bargaining agreements will be continued for the term of the 2004 agreements. Sincerely,
409
CONTINUE - NATIONAL OPERATIONS TABLE ITEMS November 1, 2004 Mr. Ralph V. Maly, Jr., Vice President, CWA Re: Continuation of National Operations Table Items Included During the Term of the 1998 National Memorandum of Understanding - Operational Employees The parties agree that all the provisions in the National Operations Table included during the term of the 1998 National Memorandum of Understanding that were included in the Consolidated Workers General Agreement Appendix F associated with Articles 25-28 will continue for the term of the 2004 Memorandum of Understanding with regard to Operational Employees. Sincerely,
/s/William L. Schecter Workforce Relations Vice President Concurred:
410
Manufacturing and National Units
MANUFACTURING AND NATIONAL UNITS - INSTALLATION AND CARA
Mr. Robert G. Richhart, Administrative Assistant to vice President, CWA
Re: Continuation of the Manufacturing and National Units Supplement to the 1998 National Memorandum of Understanding Items - Installation and CARA
--
--
--
H
Binary file (standard input) matches
