=== HEALTHCARE EXTRACTION: CBA_12 ===
Source: C:/Users/zachary.parolin/INETInequality Dropbox/INET Inequality Team/Projects/LLMs & Inequality/1_CBAs/Cornell Archive/Cornell-DoL/K800147ABBYY.pdf
Total document lines: 5630
Extracted healthcare lines: 756
===========================================


TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREAMBLE ARTICLE 1, Recognition ARTICLE 2, Union Security ARTICLE 3, Dues Deduction ARTICLE 4, Hours of Work ARTICLE 5, Rest Periods ARTICLE 6, Meal Periods ARTICLE 7, Holidays ARTICLE 8, Personal Leave Days ARTICLE 9, Leaves of Absence ARTICLE 10, Vacations ARTICLE 11, Sick Leave & Bereavement Leave ARTICLE 12, Civil Leave ARTICLE 13, Military Leave ARTICLE 14, Leaves of Absence Without Pay ARTICLE 15, Parental Leave ARTICLE 16, Salaries & Wages ARTICLE 17, Overtime ARTICLE 18, Shift Differential ARTICLE 19, Call Time & Standby Time ARTICLE 20, Life Insurance ARTICLE 21, Health Benefits ARTICLE 22, Work-Related Injuries ARTICLE 23, Classification ARTICLE 24, Discharge, Demotion, Suspension & Discipline ARTICLE 25, Seniority ARTICLE 26, Uniforms, Clothing & Equipment ARTICLE 27, Non-Discrimination ARTICLE 28, Union Business ARTICLE 29, Special & Part-time Employees ARTICLE 30, Peace & Stability ARTICLE 31, Travel Expenses ARTICLE 32, Personnel Records ARTICLE 33, Equal Employment Opportunity ARTICLE 34, Accelerated Grievance Procedure ARTICLE 35, Management Rights ARTICLE 36, Consultation ARTICLE 37, Miscellaneous Provisions ARTICLE 38, Working Environment ARTICLE 39, Safety and Health ARTICLE 40, Professional Education Program ARTICLE 41, PRN Nurse ARTICLE 42, Successors ARTICLE 43, Preservation of Bargaining Unit Work ARTICLE 44, Family Care Leave ARTICLE 45, Political Action Committee Deductions
1
ARTICLE 46, Leave Donation Program ARTICLE 47, Termination APPENDIX A, Pay Schedule Effective July 1, 2002 APPENDIX B, Pay Schedule Effective July 1, 2005 APPENDIX C, Pay Schedule Effective January 1, 2007 APPENDIX D, Class Series - Promotion and Furloughs APPENDIX E, Rules of the Accelerated Grievance Procedure APPENDIX F, Drug and Alcohol Testing Program APPENDIX G, List of Certifications
2
PREAMBLE
This Agreement entered into by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, hereinafter referred to as the Employer, and District 1199P, Service Employees International Union, AFL-CIO, CLC, hereinafter referred to as the Union, has as its purpose the promotion of harmonious relations between the Employer and the Union; the establishment of an equitable and peaceful procedure for the resolution of differences; and the establishment of rates of pay, hours of work and other conditions of employment.
ARTICLE l RECOGNITION
Section 1. The Union is recognized as the exclusive representative for collective bargaining purposes for employees within the classifications included under the certification of the Pennsylvania Labor Relations Board, dated October 23, 1997, more specifically referred to as PERA-R-97-233-E and any amendments thereto approved by the Pennsylvania Labor Relations Board.
Section 2. The term "employee" when used in this Agreement is defined as those persons in the classifications covered by the certifications referred to in Section l of this Article.
ARTICLE 2 UNION SECURITY
Section 1. Each employee who, on the effective date of this Agreement, is a member of the Union, and each employee who becomes a member after that date shall maintain membership in the Union provided that such employee may resign from the Union in accordance with the following procedure:
a. The employee shall send a certified letter return receipt requested of resignation to the District Office of the Union, and a copy of the letter to the employee's agency. The official membership card, if available, shall accompany the letter of resignation.
b. The letter shall be postmarked during the l5 day period prior to the expiration date of this Agreement and shall state that the employee is resigning membership in the Union and where applicable is revoking check-off authorization.
Section 2. The Employer and the Union hereby agree that all non-dues paying members of the Union shall be subject to a fair share fee as provided for in Act 84 of 1988 (Senate Bill 291) and any amendments thereto.
Section 3. The payment of dues and assessments while a member or the payment of a fair share fee shall be the only requisite employment condition.
3
Section 4. The Employer shall furnish each new employee with a copy of this Agreement together with an authorization for dues payroll deduction, provided the Union has furnished the Employer with sufficient copies of the Agreement containing the authorization for dues deduction.
ARTICLE 3 DUES DEDUCTION
Section 1. The Employer agrees to deduct the Union bi-weekly membership dues, initiation fees and assessments, if any, only from the bi-weekly pay of those employees who individually authorize in writing that such deductions be made. The amounts to be deducted shall be certified to the Employer by the Union, and the aggregate deductions of all employees shall be remitted together with an itemized statement thereof, to the Union by the last day of the succeeding month after such deductions are made. This authorization shall be irrevocable by the employee during the term of this Agreement except as provided for in Article 2.
When an authorization to deduct dues is revoked by the employee in accordance with Article 2, the Agency shall halt the check-off of dues effective the first full pay period following the expiration of this Agreement.
Section 2. The employee's written authorization for dues payroll deductions submitted hereafter shall contain the employee's name, social security number, agency in which employed, work location (institution, district, bureau, etc.), Union name and local number.
Section 3. The Employer further agrees to deduct a fair share fee from the bi-weekly pay of all employees in the bargaining unit who are not dues paying members of the Union.
Authorization from non-dues paying members to deduct fair share fees shall not be required. The amounts to be deducted shall be certified to the Employer by the Union, and the aggregate deductions of all employees shall be remitted together with an itemized statement thereof, to the Union by the last day of the succeeding month after such deductions are made.
Section 4. Where an employee has been suspended, furloughed or discharged, and subsequently returned to work with full or partial back pay, the Employer shall, in the manner outlined in Sections 1 and 3 above, deduct the Union membership dues and fair share fees that are due and owing for the period for which the employee receives back pay. Deductions of dues and fair share fees will be resumed for an employee who returns to work following a leave of absence without pay or who is recalled from furlough.
Section 5. The Union shall indemnify and hold the Commonwealth harmless against any and all claims, suits, orders or judgments brought or issued against the Commonwealth as a result of all actions taken or not taken by the Commonwealth under the provisions of this Article.
Section 6. The Employer shall provide the Union, on a quarterly basis, a list of all employees in the bargaining unit represented by the Union. This list shall contain the employee's name, social
4
security number, address, agency in which employed, class code, work location (institution, district, bureau, etc.) and whether the employee is a dues paying member or fair share fee payer.
Section 7. The Employer shall provide the information specified in Sections 1 and 6 above through electronic data transfer, at no cost to the Union.
ARTICLE 4 HOURS OF WORK
Section 1. The workweek shall consist of five consecutive workdays in a pre-established work schedule except for employees in seven-day operations.
Section 2. The workday shall consist of any 24 hours in a pre-established work schedule, beginning with the scheduled reporting time for the employee's shift. In the event of an early a.m. or late p.m. community health activity in the Department of Health, the Employer may flex the starting and quitting time for an employee without incurring an overtime liability. In the event of a training program at an institution or facility, the Employer may flex the starting and quitting time for an employee who so volunteers without incurring an overtime liability. In all cases, the flex schedule must be posted two weeks in advance. The Employer agrees to consider concerns raised by the employee about the impact of the scheduled "flex".
Section 3. The work shift shall consist of 7 l/2 or 8 work hours within a work day and the number of hours in a shift on the date of this Agreement shall not be altered by the Employer at any institution, community health district or Health Department Central Office Unit without prior agreement of the Union.
Except for emergencies, employees will not be required to work more than 16 consecutive hours, exclusive of meal periods.
Section 4. The regular hours of work for any shift shall be consecutive except that they may be interrupted by a meal period.
Section 5. Except for emergencies, work schedules showing the employees' shifts, workdays, and hours shall be posted on appropriate bulletin boards at the employee's work site two weeks in advance.
An employee's request to schedule a certain day off due to an appointment with a physician or dentist or other personal business which is submitted four or more weeks in advance shall not be unreasonably denied.
Customary shift times and schedule patterns will not be arbitrarily changed. When changes are to be made by the Employer for other than emergency reasons, the Employer will meet and discuss with the Union prior to the implementation of such changes.
5
When work schedules are to be adopted for new programs, the Employer will meet and discuss with the Union prior to the implementation of such schedules.
A Department of Health employee whose regular work schedule is Monday through Friday throughout the year shall not have that work schedule changed to other than a Monday through Friday work schedule except for a legitimate operational reason which is not arbitrary or capricious.
Section 6. Employees engaged in seven-day operations are defined as those employees working in an activity for which there is regularly scheduled employment seven days a week. For such employees, the work schedule shall consist of any ten days within any consecutive l4 calendar day period. Employees will not be scheduled for more than eight consecutive days or more than two consecutive weekends except in cases where the Employer and the employee mutually agree. Upon request of the Union, the parties shall meet and discuss at the local level issues relating to scheduling every other weekend off.
Employees who are employed at an MH or MR facility within the Department of Public Welfare will not be scheduled to work for more than seven consecutive days, nor will such employees be scheduled to work consecutive weekends, except in cases where the Employer and the employee mutually agree. In cases where the current established practice at a specific MH or MR facility is to schedule employees to work fewer consecutive days or fewer weekends, such practice shall be maintained.
Section 7. The number of consecutive days and consecutive weekends set forth in Section 6 above is maximum and should be reduced where such a reduction is feasible. The parties agree that the general practice of scheduling consecutive weekends and/or more than seven consecutive days and/or split days off should be avoided wherever and whenever it is feasible. Whether or not such a reduction is feasible is grievable through the Joint State Committee of the grievance procedure and the decision of the Joint State Committee shall be final and binding.
Section 8. The Employer will attempt to equalize scheduled weekend work among bargaining unit employees within the same functional unit at each institution whenever this can be accomplished without interfering with efficient operations. The Employer will meet and discuss upon request at the local level about the definition of functional units.
Section 9. Upon request of the Union, the Employer shall meet and discuss with the Union, at the agency level, concerning the time of beginning or ending a work shift.
Section 10. In the event of a change in shift, employees must be off work for a minimum of three shifts or their equivalent unless a scheduled day or days off intervene between such shift change. Employees shall not be required to work more than two different shifts in a work week, except for emergencies. Exceptions to this Section may be made upon mutual agreement between the Employer and the employee.
Section 11. Where the practice of rotating shift assignments in institutions now exists and where
6
the Union believes that fixed schedules are feasible and desirable the following procedure will apply:
a. The Union will engage in "meet and discuss" at the institution level.
b. If no agreement is reached at the local level a "meet and discuss" session will be scheduled at the agency level.
c. If no agreement is reached at the agency level, the Union may process a grievance to the Joint State Committee. In considering and deciding the grievance, the Joint State Committee will take into consideration the practices in effect at other institutions where rotating shifts do not exist. The decision of the Joint State Committee shall be final and binding.
Section 12. Non-standard schedules of work may be established by mutual agreement at the local level and with the approval of the Union and the Agency and the Office of Administration. If discussion of a proposed plan is not resolved in a manner satisfactory to both parties at the local level, a meet and discuss meeting will be scheduled upon request with representatives of the Union, representatives of the Office of Administration, Bureau of Labor Relations, and representatives of the Agency within 30 days and a decision will be reached within 90 days. Implementation and continuation of non-standard schedules will be by mutual agreement.
It is further agreed that the purpose of the proposed non-standard schedules of work shall be to improve the Employer's operational efficiency and/or service to its clients and quality of work life of employees. It shall not cause an increase in the overall cost of affected operations, nor cause an increase in current overall complement at affected operations, nor adversely affect the Employer's ability to meet criteria for accreditations and/or certification, nor adversely impact on the efficiency of affected operations or standards of service, nor shall there be an unreasonable number of schedules at any one location.
A task force consisting of representatives of the Commonwealth and District 1199P, SEIU will be established upon request at the agency level to attempt to develop mutually agreed upon model language for non-standard schedules of work. District 1199P, SEIU will be represented on this task force by a total maximum of three bargaining unit members.
Section 13. It is agreed that the provisions of this Article cannot be rigidly applied to part-time employees. When changes are made in schedules of part-time employees, such changes will be made on the basis of past practice, hardships involved for individuals and fairness to part-time and full-time employees, subject to the operating requirements of the institution. Part-time employees are defined as employees who are not regularly scheduled to work at least 37 l/2 hours in a normal work week or, in the case of employees in seven-day operations, who are not regularly scheduled to work at least 75 hours in a l4 day period.
Section 14. It is further agreed that the relative number of full-time and part-time employees at a work location may be an appropriate topic for meet and discuss.
7
ARTICLE 5 REST PERIODS
Section 1. An employee shall be permitted a fifteen-minute paid rest period during each one -half work shift provided the employee works a minimum of three hours in that one-half shift. Whenever practical, the employee shall be permitted to take the rest period at the middle of such one -half shift. Where rest periods are scheduled, the Employer shall be able to vary the scheduling of such period when, in its opinion, the demands of work require such variance. The regular scheduling of rest periods immediately before or after meal periods or at the beginning or end of the work day is permissible in certain operations where the Union and the Employer agree to such a practice or, where the present practice is to schedule rest periods in that manner.
Section 2. Employees who work, without interruption, beyond their regular shift for at least one hour, shall receive a fifteen-minute paid rest period and shall thereafter receive a fifteen-minute paid rest period for each additional two hours of such work unless at the end of such two hour period the employee's work is completed or unless the employee takes a meal period during or at the end of the two hour period.
If employees take a meal period at the expiration of their normal work day, then they shall thereafter be given a fifteen-minute paid rest period for each additional two hours of such work unless at the end of such two hour period their work is completed or unless the employee takes a meal period during or at the end of the two hour period.
Section 3. Part-time employees shall be granted a fifteen-minute rest period during each 3 3/4 hour work period.
ARTICLE 6 MEAL PERIODS
Section l.
Employees shall be granted meal periods. The hours of work during a work day shall
--
d. Leave service credit earned during all periods of Commonwealth employment where leave service credit is earned will be used to determine whether, for purposes of this section, an employee is in the first calendar year of employment, the second calendar year of employment or the third and subsequent years of employment.
Not more than one personal leave day may be scheduled in the fourth calendar quarter, except in the Department of Health where more than one personal leave day may be scheduled in the fourth calendar quarter.
Section 2. Personal leave shall be scheduled and granted for periods of time requested by the employee subject to management's responsibility to maintain efficient operations. If the nature of the work makes it necessary to limit the number of employees on personal leave at the same time, the employee with the greatest seniority as it relates to total years of service in state government shall be given preference in the event of any conflict in selection. Where reasonable opportunities are available for selection of personal leave on a seniority basis, approved requests shall not be revoked if a conflict in selection develops after the selection period. Requests for emergency personal leave will be entertained at any time with the understanding that an employee may be required to substantiate the emergency nature of the request and that further, it may be necessary, in order to accommodate the emergency, to reschedule requests of other employees for personal, holiday, compensatory leave and/or annual leave not scheduled during the selection period.
Section 3. Personal leave to which an employee may become entitled during the calendar year may be granted at the Employer's discretion before it is earned. An employee who is permitted to anticipate such leave and who subsequently terminates employment shall reimburse the Commonwealth for those days of personal leave used but not earned.
Section 4. Personal leave days shall be noncumulative from calendar year to calendar year. However, employees will be permitted to carry over personal leave days into the first seven (7) pay periods of the next calendar year. Any days carried over in accordance with this Section which are not scheduled and used during the first seven (7) pay periods of the next calendar year will be lost.
Section 5. An employee who becomes ill while on personal leave will not be charged personal leave for the period of illness provided the employee furnishes satisfactory proof of such illness to the Employer upon return to work.
Section 6. All permanent part-time employees shall receive personal leave days on a pro rata basis calculated to the nearest one-half day provided they are in an active pay status a percentage of 150 hours (37.5 hour workweek) or 160 hours (40 hour workweek) equal to the percentage of hours normally worked in a biweekly pay period during the earning periods specified in Section 1 above.
13
Section 7. For the purpose of this Article, the calendar year shall be defined as beginning with the employee's first full pay period commencing on or after January 1 and continuing through the end of the employee's pay period that includes December 31. For the purpose of this Article, the calendar quarters shall be defined as beginning with the first full pay period in January through March 31, April 1 through June 30, July 1 through September 30, and October 1 through the last full pay period of the leave calendar year, which is the pay period that includes December 31.
Section 8. Effective January 1, 2004, or as soon as practically possible thereafter, the Commonwealth will adopt a tax-qualified Leave Payout Plan. All employees who attain age 55 before or during the calendar year they separate from service after adoption of the Leave Payout Plan shall have the leave payouts otherwise payable for accumulated and unused Annual Leave, Personal Leave, Compensatory Leave, Holiday Leave and Sick Leave, up to the maximum allowable by law, deposited in an account in the employee's name, provided however that if the total amount of leave payout is $5000 or less, this amount shall be paid to the employee in cash. Amounts in excess of the maximum allowable amount will be paid to the employee in cash.
Section 9.
Employees who are scheduled to work in offices of the Commonwealth which are
closed on the Day after Thanksgiving will utilize an annual or personal leave day or be charged leave
without pay for the Day after Thanksgiving, unless the employee and their supervisor agree on an
appropriate field assignment. An employee request for a field assignment will not be arbitrarily or
capriciously denied.
ARTICLE 9 LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Section 1. All time that an employee is absent from work shall be appropriately charged.
Section 2. Where a state civil service examination is not given during an employee's non-working time, a permanent full-time employee shall be granted administrative leave with pay to take such examination which is scheduled during the employee's regular work hours subject to management's responsibility to maintain efficient operations. Employees shall only be entitled to leave for this purpose on one occasion during each one-half calendar year. Such leave shall not exceed the employee's normal work shift or the time necessary to travel to and from the examination and to take the examination, whichever is lesser. Employees shall not be eligible for travel expenses under this section.
Section 3. All requests for leave must be submitted in writing to the employee's immediate supervisor and shall be answered in writing promptly, unless otherwise specified by this Agreement. Requests for emergency-type leaves shall be answered before the end of the shift on which the request is made. An employee may be required to substantiate the emergency nature of the request. If documented substantiation is required, the employee will be permitted to provide it upon return to work. Except for emergency-type leaves, the time when leave is taken is within the discretion of the Employer.
14
Requests for any type of leave to which an employee is entitled under this Agreement and which is not to exceed one month shall be answered by the Employer within five days, unless otherwise specified by this Agreement. If the requested leave is in excess of one month, the request shall be answered within l0 days, unless otherwise specified by this Agreement.
For purposes of scheduling, requests for annual leave, personal leave and compensatory time off will have equal priority.
Section 4. One elected officer or representative from each work site may be granted one day of administrative leave per calendar year to attend a training program that deals with contract administration.
Section 5. For the purpose of this Article, the calendar year shall be defined as beginning with the employee's first full pay period commencing on or after January 1 and continuing through the end of the employee's pay period that includes December 31.
ARTICLE l0 VACATIONS
Section 1. Employees shall be eligible for annual leave after 30 calendar days of service with the Employer. Employees shall earn annual leave as of their date of employment in accordance with the following schedule:
Leave Service Credit (Includes all periods of Commonwealth Employment Where Leave Service Credit Is Earned)
--
Section 2. Vacation pay shall be the employee's regular straight time rate of pay in effect for the employee's regular classification.
Section 3. Vacations shall be scheduled and granted for periods of time requested by the employee subject to management's responsibility to maintain efficient operations. If the nature of the work makes it necessary to limit the number of employees on vacation at the same time, the employee with the greatest seniority as it relates to total years of service with the Employer shall be given preference in the event of any conflict in selection. Where reasonable opportunities are available for selection of vacation on a seniority basis, approved requests shall not be revoked if a conflict in selection develops after the selection period. The selection periods shall be as follows, unless there are existing or subsequent agreements on the selection period at appropriate local levels:
Selection Period
Response to Requests
Vacation Period
September 1-30 March 1-31
October 10 April 10
January 1-June 30 July 1-December 31
The scheduling of weekends off in conjunction with pre-selected vacations may be the subject of a local level meet and discuss.
During the selection period, institutions will not arbitrarily deny requests for annual or personal leave on weekends when the employee is scheduled to work.
Section 4. If a holiday occurs during the work week in which vacation is taken by an employee, the holiday shall not be charged to annual leave.
16
Section 5. Employees who become ill during their vacation will not be charged annual leave for the period of illness provided they furnish satisfactory proof of such illness to the Employer upon their return to work.
Section 6. Employees separated from the service of the Employer for any reason prior to taking their vacation, shall be compensated in a lump sum for the unused vacation they have accumulated up to the time of separation.
Effective January 1, 2004, or as soon as practically possible thereafter, the Commonwealth will adopt a tax-qualified Leave Payout Plan. All employees who attain age 55 before or during the calendar year they separate from service after adoption of the Leave Payout Plan shall have the leave payouts otherwise payable for accumulated and unused Annual Leave, Personal Leave, Compensatory Leave, Holiday Leave and Sick Leave, up to the maximum allowable by law, deposited in an account in the employee's name, provided however that if the total amount of leave payout is $5000 or less, this amount shall be paid to the employee in cash. Amounts in excess of the maximum allowable amount will be paid to the employee in cash.
Section 7. Unused annual leave shall be carried over from one calendar year to the next provided that in no case shall the amount thus carried over exceed 45 days (337.5 or 360 hours). However, employees will be permitted to carry over annual leave in excess of the forty-five day limit into the first seven (7) pay periods of the next calendar year. Any days carried over in accordance with this Section which are not scheduled and used during the first seven (7) pay periods of the next calendar year will be converted to sick leave subject to the 300 day limitation contained in Article 11, Section 2. Scheduling of those days carried over shall be in accordance with Section 3 above.
Section 8. If an employee is required to return to work after commencement of a prescheduled vacation, the employee shall be compensated at one and one-half times the employee's regular hourly rate of pay for all hours required to work on the prescheduled vacation day or days. The employee shall be permitted to reschedule such vacation day or days in accordance with Section 3.
Section 9. The provisions of Section l of this Article shall not apply to temporary employees unless such employees have worked 750 regular hours by the end of the last full pay period in each calendar year. It is understood that this section does not apply to furloughed employees who, during their recall period, return to the Employer's payroll in a temporary capacity.
Section 10. Employees on leave without pay to attend official Union conventions or conferences in accordance with Article l4, Section 3 shall have that time included in regular hours paid for purposes of earning annual leave entitlement and credited service under Section l above.
Section 11. Permanent employees who have one or more years of service since the date on which they commenced their most recent period of employment may anticipate annual leave to which they become entitled during the then current calendar year unless the Employer has reason to believe that the employee has been abusing the leave privilege. Permanent employees with less than one year of service since the date on which they commenced their most recent period of employment may not anticipate annual leave.
17
Section 12. An employee who is furloughed and is not employed in another position within l4 calendar days of the effective date of furlough will receive a lump sum payment for all earned, unused annual leave unless the employee requests in writing before the end of the l4 calendar days to freeze all earned unused annual leave.
An employee may subsequently change a decision to freeze the earned, unused annual leave by submitting a written request for a lump sum payment for the annual leave. Payment will be made within 35 days of the date on which the request is received by the Employer, and will be at the rate of pay in effect on the last day of employment prior to the date of furlough.
If the employee is reemployed during the furlough recall period, the annual leave which was frozen will be reinstated. If the employee is not reemployed prior to the expiration of the furlough recall period, the employee shall be paid off in lump sum for all frozen earned unused annual leave at the rate of pay in effect on the last date of employment prior to the date of furlough.
Section 13. After fifteen years of service in the bargaining unit an employee will be guaranteed once in their career, upon request during the selection period, no less than four weeks but no more than nine weeks of continuous annual leave. However, no more than one employee per seniority unit shall be granted this continuous leave during the same time period. This guarantee supersedes the seniority selection. The employee must have accumulated the annual leave necessary prior to the request. No anticipated annual leave may be used.
Section 14. For the purpose of this Article, the calendar year shall be defined as beginning with the employee's first full pay period commencing on or after January 1 and continuing through the end of the employee's pay period that includes December 31.
Section 15. Employees who are scheduled to work in offices of the Commonwealth which are closed on the Day after Thanksgiving will utilize an annual or personal leave day or be charged leave without pay for the Day after Thanksgiving, unless the employee and their supervisor agree on an appropriate field assignment. An employee request for a field assignment will not be arbitrarily or capriciously denied.
ARTICLE 11 SICK LEAVE AND BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
--
(1) For periods of more than 180 days, no more than 90 days after the completion of the service.
(2) For periods of service of more than 30 days but less than 181 days, no more than 14 days after the completion of the service.
(3) For periods of service that were less than 31 days, the first full regularly scheduled work period following the period of service or up to eight hours after an opportunity to return from the place of service to the employee's home.
(4) For periods of hospitalization or convalescence from illness or injury incurred during the period of service, up to two years after the period of service or when recovered, whichever occurs sooner.
(5) For circumstances beyond an employee's control, the above periods may be extended upon demonstration of such circumstance.
Section 5. Re-employment
Employees have the right to return to employment at the time of or prior to the expiration of military leave upon notifying the agency head of the desire and availability to return to Commonwealth service, provided the following are met:
a. The employee is capable of performing the essential functions of the position.
b. For temporary employees, the temporary position has not yet expired.
25
c. For periods of service delineated in Section 4 c. (1) and (4), written application for reemployment is provided to the agency head.
Section 6. Seniority Rights
An employee who returns to employment at the time of or prior to the expiration of military leave shall be given such status in employment as would have been enjoyed if employment had been continuous from the time of entrance into the Armed Forces.
Section 7. Retirement Rights
Employees who are granted military leaves may, under conditions provided ni the Military Code (51 Pa.C.S. 7306) and Chapter 43, Part III of Title 38 United States Code and in accordance with procedures prescribed by the State Employes' Retirement Board and the Public School Employes' Retirement Board, choose either to continue or discontinue making regular payments into their retirement accounts.
Section 8. Loss of Benefits
Employees who are separated from the service by a discharge under other than honorable conditions, bad conduct, or dishonorable discharge shall not be entitled to any of the benefits of Section 3 through Section 9 of the Article (relating to military leaves without pay) except such vested rights as they may have acquired thereto by virtue of payments made into their retirement accounts.
Section 9. Physical Examination
Employees shall be granted one day's leave with pay for the purpose of undergoing any physical examination that may be required in connection with entering the Armed Forces. An extension of such paid leave, not exceeding two additional days, may be approved by the agency if the employee certified in writing that more than one day is required to complete the examination.
Section 10. For the purpose of this Article, the calendar year shall be defined as beginning with the employee's first full pay period commencing on or after January 1 and continuing through the end of the employee's pay period that includes December 31.
ARTICLE 14 LEAVES OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY
Employees may be granted leave without pay at the sole discretion of the Employer for
any reason for a period not to exceed two years.
Section 2. Employees who are elected or appointed as Union officials or representatives shall at the written request of the employee be granted leave without pay for the maximum term of office,
26
not to exceed two years. Such leave may be renewed or extended by written mutual consent of the Union and the Employer.
Section 3. Members of the Union in official attendance at the Union's annual Delegate Assembly, District 1199P Nurse Council and up to three meetings per calendar year of the Professional Health Care Employees Bargaining Unit shall be granted up to four weeks' leave without pay where such time is necessary to attend such conventions. Employees may use accrued annual or personal leave for this purpose in lieu of leave without pay. The Employer will try to arrange leave for all employees requesting leave to attend these conventions, but the number of such leaves granted is subject to the Employer's responsibility to maintain efficient operations and if all requests cannot be granted, as many as possible will be approved with preference given to requests from Union Officers or elected worksite representatives and delegates.
Requests for such leave will be forwarded to the Bureau of Labor Relations, Office of Administration, by the Union with a copy to the Agency Labor Relations Coordinator not less than three weeks prior to the date of the convention. Each request will contain the name, classification, department and work location of the Union member, in addition to the name of the convention.
Section 4. After completing one year of service, an employee may be granted a leave of absence without pay at the sole discretion of the Employer for educational purposes. Such leave shall not exceed l8 months and shall not be granted more than once every four years.
Section 5. After completing six months of service, employees shall be granted, upon written request, extended leave without pay for illness for a period of at least two consecutive weeks, but not more than six months. If the illness or disability is due to a serious health condition as defined by the Family and Medical Leave Act, leave shall be granted for less than two consecutive weeks. The request, which shall be submitted in advance of the leave if circumstances permit, shall include proof of illness or disability in the form of a doctor's certificate and shall state a prognosis and expected date of return.
If requested and properly documented as medically necessary, leave under this Section shall be approved on an intermittent or reduced-time basis.
After the employee has used an aggregate of six months of leave without pay under this section, the Employer is not required to grant subsequent leave without pay for this purpose unless six (6) months in an active pay status have elapsed from the termination of the last date of approved leave under this section. This section shall not apply to a work-related injury.
Section 6. Upon written request of the employee, an extension of up to an additional six months of
leave without pay for illness shall be granted provided the employee provides proof of continuing illness
or disability in the form of a doctor's certificate which shall state a prognosis and expected date of
return. The extension shall be without benefits. Upon certification from the employee's doctor that the
employee is able to return to work, the employee shall be offered a position in the same classification
and seniority unit for which a vacancy exists and to which there are no seniority claims and which the
agency intends to fill.
If such a position is not available, the
27
employee shall be offered, during the remainder of the six-month period, any position in the same classificatio n, in a lower classification in the same classification series, or a position previously held, within the seniority unit, for which a vacancy exists and to which there are no seniority claims and which the agency intends to fill. If the employee refuses an offer of a position in the same classification, the employee's rights under this section shall terminate. If the employee accepts a position in a lower classification or a position previously held, the employee will be offered a position in the same cla ssification if there is a vacancy in that classification during the remainder of the six- month period in the seniority unit, provided there are no seniority claims to the position, and the agency intends to fill the position. This section shall not apply to a work-related injury.
Section 7. Employees shall not be required to use accumulated sick, annual and/or personal leave prior to the commencement of a leave without pay.
Section 8. Upon the expiration of any approved leave of absence without pay, except as provided in Section 6 above and in Article 22, Section 7, the employee is entitled to return to a position in the same or equivalent classification within the agency, subject to the furlough provisions of Article 25, Seniority.
Section 9. It is understood by both parties that the provisions of Sections 5, 6, 7 and 8 are consistent with the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, 29 USC Section 2601 et seq and that leave granted in accordance with Sections 5, 6, 7, and 8 shall be designated as leave under the provisions of the Act.
--
service increment effective on the first day of the first full pay period in January, 2007.
d. Employees covered by this Agreement who terminate with at least one year of continuous service since their most recent appointment and who are reemployed within six months from the date of termination or furlough will be eligib le to receive the one step service increments outlined in Subsections a., b., and c., if they are in an active pay status on the effective date of the increments.
e. During the term of this Agreement, employees who are at or above the maximum step of their pay range at the time they would become eligible for a service increment as outlined in Subsections a., b., and c., shall receive the annual amount of a two and one-quarter percent (2.25%) increase in the form of a one-time cash payment rounded to the nearest dollar .
Section 7. a. When an employee covered by this Agreement is promoted to another classification in a higher pay range, the employee shall receive an increase of four steps for each pay range the employee is promoted or to the minimum of the new pay range, whichever is greater.
b. When an employee covered by this Agreement is demoted (including demotions occurring as a result of furlough bump or furlough recall) to another classification in a lower pay range, the employee shall receive a decrease of four steps for each pay range the employee is demoted or to the maximum of the new pay range, whichever is lesser.
c. When an employee covered by this Agreement is transferred to another classification in the same pay range, the employee shall be placed at the same step in the pay range.
d. When an employee is promoted into this bargaining unit in a classification in a higher pay range due to the Commonwealth's Nurse for the Future Program", the employee shall receive an increase of four steps or the minimum of the new pay range, whichever is greater.
Section 8. The cash payments provided for in this Article shall not be added to the employee's base salary. The cash payment will be subject to dues and fair share fee deductions where applicable.
Section 9. The Pay Range for Pharmacist is Pay Range 9, Steps 8 through 20.
Section 10. An employee in an inactive pay status shall, upon return to active pay status, be entitled to the above general pay increases outlined in Sections 2 and 3, the cash payments outlined in Sections 4 and 6 where applicable, and the service increments outlined in Section 6, where applicable.
Section 11. The salaries of employees shall be paid biweekly. In the event the payday occurs on a holiday, the preceding day shall be the payday.
31
Section 12. The policies regarding pay range revisions contained in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania's Personnel Rules shall continue.
Section 13. Permanent employees who have attained one or more of the certifications listed in Appendix G in an appropriate specialization by July 1, 2003; July 1, 2004; July 1, 2005; July 1, 2006, as appropriate, will receive a $200.00 certification payment in each contract year that the employee meets the criteria. To receive the certification payment employees must be in active pay status on July 1, of the appropriate contract year and must be in an active pay status from 50% to 100% of the time for six months during the 12 months preceding July 1, of the appropriate contract year. The area of certification must be related to the employees' duties and responsibilities with the Commonwealth.
An employee in an inactive pay status on July 1, upon return to active pay status, shall be entitled to the certification payment, subject to the same entitlement criteria.
Section 14. The Employer and the Union agree to create a Job Evaluation Committee to review the appropriate pay range for the Public Health Program Representative classification and the Pharmacist classification.
Any dispute over the pay range will be submitted to an Arbitration Panel within 45 days of the submission of the issue to the Job Evaluation Committee. The Arbitration Panel shall be composed of three members; one appointed by the Union, one appointed by the Employer and the third to be mutually agreed upon or selected from a list of arbitrators supplied by the PA Bureau of Mediation. The decision of the Panel shall be advisory to the parties of this Agreement.
Should the advisory arbitration panel award a pay range adjustment, and should the Commonwealth agree to implement the awarded pay range adjustment, the pay range adjustment will not be implemented as a promotion as defined by the Commonwealth's Personnel Rules.
Section 15. Effective October 1, 2003, all employees will be required to sign up for direct deposit of paychecks and travel expense reimbursement.
ARTICLE l7 OVERTIME
Section 1. One and one-half times the employee's regular hourly rate of pay shall be paid for work performed under the following conditions:
a. For any work performed in excess of eight hours in any work day or in excess of 40 hours in any work week;
b. For employees engaged in seven-day operations, for any work in excess of eight hours in any one work day or in excess of 80 hours in any bi-weekly pay period.
32
c. There shall be no duplication of premium pay for the same hours worked under the provisions of subsections a. and b. of this section.
Section 2. The following items will be regarded as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime pay under Section 1 of this Article.
a. Hours worked, excluding standby time. b. Rest periods. c. Holidays, except (l) Where after mutual agreement, the employee is compensated at the
employee's regular rate of pay for a holiday which occurs on an employee's day off in
lieu of granting paid time off. (2) Where, after mutual agreement, the employee is
compensated at the employee's regular rate of pay in lieu of granting paid time off
earned as a result of working a holiday.
d. Annual leave.
e. Compensatory leave; to be included in the period of occurrence for the purpose of
computing overtime.
f.
Personal day leave.
g. Administrative leave
h. Sick leave
Section 3. Double an employee's regular hourly rate of pay shall be paid for work under the following conditions:
a. An employee on a five day per week schedule shall be paid double time for hours worked on the second scheduled day off in the work week provided the employee is in an active pay status on the employee's five regularly scheduled work days and works the employee's first scheduled day off in the work week. If such an employee is in an active pay status the employee's next five regularly scheduled work days and works the employee's next scheduled day off or next two scheduled days off, the employee shall be paid double time for hours worked on those days. An employee who has been paid double time for the fourth scheduled day off shall be paid double time for all subsequent consecutive scheduled days off worked provided the employee is in an active pay status the first five regularly scheduled work days in the normal bi-weekly work period, if the first or first and second scheduled days off are worked, and the employee is in an active pay status the second five regularly scheduled work days in the normal bi-weekly work period if the third or third and fourth scheduled days off are worked.
b. An employee whose work schedule consists of any ten days within a consecutive l4 calendar day period as provided in Article 4, Section 6, shall be paid double time for the second and/or fourth scheduled days off work; provided, in order to be eligible for double time on the second day off, the employee must be in an active pay status the first five regularly scheduled work days and work the first scheduled day off in the normal bi-weekly work period and, in order to be eligible for double time on the
--
fourth day off, the employee must be in an active pay status the second five regularly scheduled work days and work the third scheduled day off in the normal bi-weekly work period. An employee on this work schedule shall be paid double time for the third scheduled day off; provided in order to be eligible for double time on the third day off, the employee must be in an active pay status the first five regularly scheduled work days and the second five regularly scheduled work days and work the first and second scheduled days off in the normal bi-weekly work period. An employee who has been paid double time for the fourth scheduled day off shall be paid double time for all subsequent consecutive scheduled days off worked provided the employee is in an active pay status the first five regularly scheduled work days in the normal bi-weekly work period, if the first or first and second scheduled days off are worked, and the employee is in an active pay status the second five regularly scheduled work days in the normal bi-weekly work period if the third or third and fourth scheduled days off are worked.
c. For fifteen-minute rest periods, in the event employees are required to work through their rest period, while on premium overtime.
Section 4. By mutual agreement between the Employer and the employee involved, compensatory time off at the appropriate rate may be granted in lieu of premium overtime pay. Such compensatory time off is to be granted within the 90 calendar day period succeeding the date on which the overtime is worked. If a written request is received prior to or within 45 days after the date on which the overtime is worked, the compensatory time off shall, subject to management's responsibility to maintain efficient operations, be scheduled and granted as requested by the employee. If the Employer does not schedule the compensatory time off in accordance with the employee's request, or at some other time mutually agreed to prior to the completion of the 90 calendar day period succeeding the date on which the overtime is worked, the employee shall be compensated at the appropriate rate of pay in lieu of compensatory time off.
Section 5. The Employer will attempt to equalize overtime between employees within the same job classification in the same functional unit at an institution, community health district or Health Department Central Office unit. The Employer shall first seek to obtain volunteers for the performance of overtime work. In the event that sufficient volunteers are not available, the Employer shall have the right to assign such work on a non-volunteer basis. Nothing in this section shall require the Employer to accept as a volunteer or to assign overtime to an employee where the employee would be entitled to double time for such overtime work. This paragraph shall be superseded by any existing or subsequent procedure mutually agreed upon in writing by the Employer and the Union at an agency, institution or local agency level.
Section 6. Employees who are not permitted to take rest periods during their regular shifts shall have that time counted as time worked in addition to that which is provided for in Section 2.
Section 7. Payment for overtime is to be made on the payday of the first pay period following the pay period in which the overtime is worked. For the purpose of this section, and in the determination of this time, pay periods will be construed as after-the-fact.
34
Section 8. There shall be no duplication or pyramiding of any premium pay provided for under the provisions of this Agreement for the same hours worked. Time worked on holidays during an employee's regular shift shall not be excluded from hours worked for the purpose of determining eligibility for overtime pay under Section l of this Article.
Section 9. Effective January 1, 2004, or as soon as practically possible thereafter, the Commonwealth will adopt a tax-qualified Leave Payout Plan. All employees who attain age 55 before or during the calendar year they separate from service after adoption of the Leave Payout Plan shall have the leave payouts otherwise payable for accumulated and unused Annual Leave, Personal Leave, Compensatory Leave, Holiday Leave and Sick Leave, up to the maximum allowable by law, deposited in an account in the employee's name, provided however that if the total amount of leave payout is $5000 or less, this amount shall be paid to the employee in cash. Amounts in excess of the maximum allowable amount will be paid to the employee in cash.
ARTICLE l8 SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL
Section 1. An employee whose work shift consisting of 7 l/2 or 8 work hours on a scheduled work day begins before 6:00 a.m. or at or after l2:00 noon will be paid a shift differential of $1.00 per hour for all such hours worked on that shift.
Section 2. An employee who works overtime on a work shift as described in Section l, or who works not less than a full 7 l/2 or 8 hour shift which begins before 6:00 a.m. or at or after l2:00 noon on a day other than a scheduled work day will receive the shift differential for each non-premium hour worked and will have the shift differential included in the base rate for the purpose of computing the appropriate overtime premium rate.
An employee who works overtime after or before a scheduled work shift for which shift differential is not applicable, whether or not the overtime work is for a full 7 l/2 or 8 hour shift, shall not receive shift differential or have it included in the base rate for computing the overtime premium rate.
ARTICLE l9 CALL TIME AND STANDBY TIME
Section 1.
Employees who have been released from work and are then called back to work
outside of their regular shift schedule shall be guaranteed a minimum of three hours' pay. Employees
receiving call time assignments shall be credited for beginning work when they arrive at the work site.
Call time shall be paid for at whatever rate is appropriate. Employees will be permitted to leave the
work site when the work assignment that is the reason for the call time is completed unless the
employee's scheduled work shift has commenced. There shall be no duplication of hours or pay.
35
Section 2. An employee is on standby during the period that the employee is required to leave a phone number with the institution where the employee can be reached and be available for service at the institution within 30 minutes after a telephone call.
Only employees who are required to be on standby are entitled to the compensation hereafter set forth. Such employees on standby time shall, at the Employer's discretion, either be paid 25% of their regular base pay for such standby time or receive compensatory time equivalent to 25% of such standby time. Standby time shall not be considered hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime. An employee is not considered to be on standby time during the period the employee is being paid for call time. If the Employer is unable to reach an employee who is on standby, the employee shall not receive pay or compensatory time for any of the hours which the employee was supposed to be on standby.
ARTICLE 20 LIFE INSURANCE
Section 1. The Employer shall continue to assume the entire cost of the insurance coverage for eligible employees as set forth in the currently existing life insurance plan as modified by Section 2. The amount of insurance is based on the employee's annual pay rate in effect on the preceding January l, rounded to the nearest $l,000, but not to exceed $40,000. However, the amount of life insurance coverage will be reduced at age 70 to 65% of that coverage amount previously in effect and at age 75 to 50% of that coverage amount previously in effect.
Section 2. a. Permanent employees who are granted sick leave without pay or parental leave without pay will continue to receive l00% state paid coverage under the current life insurance plan for up to six months. Permanent employees who are on sick or parental leave without pay for longer than six months may remain in the program for an additional six month period by paying the entire premium. Permanent employees who are granted family care leave will continue to receive 100 percent state-paid coverage under the current life insurance plan for up to twelve (12) weeks. Permanent employees who are granted injury leave (paid and unpaid) will continue to receive 100 percent state-paid coverage under the current life insurance plan for up to twelve (12) months or, if only paid leave is used, beyond 12 months until the paid leave is exhausted.
b. Except as provided in c. below, those permanent employees who are placed on suspension or who are granted leave without pay for any reason other than sickness, parental, family care or injury leave for longer than one full pay period may remain in the program for up to one year by paying the entire premium.
c. Permanent employees who are regularly placed on leave without pay for one to three months every year due to cyclical work schedules or weather conditions will continue to receive l00% state paid coverage for the period they are on leave. If the leave extends beyond the regular leave period, employees may remain in the program for up to one year by paying the entire premium.
36
Section 3. The Employer shall continue to provide each employee who is covered under the currently existing life insurance plan with fully paid accidental death benefits for work-related accidental deaths. The amount of coverage is $l0,000, unless the surviving spouse or minor children are entitled to benefits under Act l0l of l976.
ARTICLE 21 HEALTH BENEFITS
Section 1. Pennsylvania Employees Benefit Trust Fund
a. A jointly administered, multi-union, health and welfare Fund has been established under the provisions of an Agreement and Declaration of Trust executed by and between Council 13, American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, AFL-CIO, and the Employer, and executed by the trustees. This jointly administered Fund is known as the Pennsylvania Employees Benefit Trust Fund (hereinafter Fund or PEBTF). The Fund shall conform to all existing and future Federal and Commonwealth statutes applicable to and controlling such Health and Welfare Fund. Said Agreement and Declaration of Trust shall provide for equal representation on the Board of Trustees appointed by the unions and the Employer. In addition, the Agreement and Declaration of Trust will allow the Fund to provide benefits to management level and retired employees, as well as employees represented by other unions and other Employers in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
b. The Board of Trustees of the Fund shall determine in their discretion and within the terms of this Agreement and the Agreement and Declaration of Trust the extent and level of medical plan benefits, supplemental benefits and other benefits to be extended by the Fund.
c. The Employer shall contribute to the Fund the amounts indicated below on behalf of each permanent full-time employee eligible for benefits and covered by this Agreement:
--
g. It is expressly agreed and understood that the Employer does not accept, nor is the Employer to be hereby charged with any responsibility in any manner connected with the determination of liability to any employee claiming any of the benefits extended by the Fund. It is expressly agreed that the Employer's liability, in any and every event, with respect to benefits extended by the Fund shall be limited to the contributions indicated under Subsection c. above.
Section 2. The provisions of Sections 3 through 7 shall be modified to the extent the medical plan benefits, supplemental benefits and other benefits as determined and extended by the Fund and/or the Retired Employees Health Program are modified for current and/or future employees and annuitants as provided for in Section 1 (employees) and/or Section 6 (annuitants) of this Article, respectively.
Section 3.
The Fund shall continue to provide each permanent full-time active employee
medical plan benefits, supplemental benefits and other benefits as determined and extended by the
Fund. In addition, it shall provide dependency coverage where the dependents of the employee qualify.
The Fund shall continue to provide permanent part-time employees who are expected to be in active
pay status at least 50% of the time every pay period medical plan benefits, supplemental benefits and
other benefits as determined and extended by the Fund. In addition, it shall provide 50% dependency
coverage where the dependents of the employee qualify. Such employees shall contribute an amount
determined by the Fund's Trustees toward the cost of coverage. Enrollment and continued coverage in
Fund benefits is further subject to the following conditions:
--
and will be maintained for at least six (6) months, the Trustees will evaluate whether employee cost sharing for employees hired before August 1, 2003, can be reduced or eliminated, provided that at no time shall any such reduction or elimination of cost sharing result in the reserve being reduced below the three (3) months of total projected claims and expenses. Should the Trustees, after evaluating the employee cost sharing, decide that contributions by employees hired before August 1, 2003 will be reduced or eliminated, the reserve will be reviewed on a six (6) month basis by the Fund's actuary. If the actuary certifies that the amount of the reserve has dropped below the three (3) month level, such contributions will resume immediately at the levels established in this Agreement, without any action on the part of the parties or the PEBTF Board of Trustees.
c. Employees hired on or after August 1, 2003 - Employees will contribute one percent (1%) of their biweekly gross salary.
(1) For the first six (6) months of employment, the employee will be offered single coverage in the least costly medical plan offered and available in his/her area, with no supplemental benefits. The employee may opt to purchase medical coverage for the employee's qualifying dependents in the same medical plan as the employee, and/or may opt to purchase a more costly plan in the area by paying the difference in cost between the least costly and the more costly plan, in addition to the one percent (1%) employee contribution.
(2) After completing six (6) months of employment, the employee and his/her qualifying dependents will be eligible for coverage under the Fund's supplemental benefits, and the employee will be permitted to cover his/her qualifying dependents under the least costly medical plan at no additional cost. If a more costly medical plan is selected, the employee will be required to pay the cost difference between the least costly and more costly plan, in addition to the one percent (1%) employee contribution.
d. Only employees who elect to enroll for PEBTF coverage, including those who enroll only for supplemental benefits, are subject to the employee contributions in this Article. An employee who is only enrolled as a spouse of another PEBTF covered employee is not subject to any required employee contributions.
e. Employee contributions under this Article will be paid to the Fund on a biweekly basis as soon as is practicable using the Employer's standard methods for transferring money. The parties intend that these contributions will be submitted in a more accelerated manner than the Employer contributions. Any employee contributions made pursuant to this Article for the first full pay period in July 2004 and thereafter will be made on a pre-tax basis.
Section 4.
a. Permanent employees who are granted sick leave without pay or parental leave without pay may continue to receive benefits as determined and extended by the Fund for up to six months. Permanent employees who are granted family care leave may continue to receive
39
benefits as determined and extended by the Fund for up to 12 weeks. Permanent employees who are granted injury leave (paid and unpaid) may continue to receive benefits as determined and extended by the Fund for up to 12 months or, if only paid leave is used, beyond 12 months until the paid leave is exhausted.
b. Except as provided in c. below, permanent part-time employees and those permanent full-time employees who are placed on suspension or who are granted leave without pay for any reason other than sickness, parental leave, family care leave or injury leave for longer than one full pay period or who are on leave longer than the applicable period specified in a. above, will be permitted to continue coverage on a direct pay basis at a rate to be determined by the Fund but no greater than the COBRA rate.
c. Permanent full-time employees and permanent part-time employees who are eligible for benefits and who are regularly placed on leave without pay for one to three months every year due to cyclical work schedules or weather conditions will continue to receive benefits as determined and extended by the Fund for the period they are on leave. If the leave extends beyond the regular leave period, employees will be permitted to continue coverage on a direct pay basis at a rate to be determined by the Fund but no greater than the COBRA rate.
d. The Employer shall continue to make full contributions to the Fund for permanent full-time employees for the period of time for which they are entitled to benefits under Subsection a. or c. and 50% contributions for permanent part-time employees for the period of time for which they are entitled to benefits under Subsection a. or c.
e. The continuation of benefits under this Section is subject to the employee's payment of any required employee contribution under Section 3.
Section 5. Spousal Eligibility
a. For employees hired on or after August 1, 2003: If the spouse of an employee is covered by any PEBTF health care plan, and he/she is eligible for coverage under another employer's plan(s), the spouse shall be required to enroll in each such plan, which shall be the spouse's primary coverage, as a condition of the spouse's eligibility for coverage by the PEBTF plan(s), without regard to whether the spouse's plan requires cost sharing or to whether the spouse's employer offers an incentive to the spouse not to enroll.
b. For employees hired before August 1, 2003: Effective October 1, 2003, if the spouse of an employee covered by any PEBTF health plan also is eligible for coverage under another employer's plan(s), the spouse shall be required to enroll in each such plan, provided that the plan in question does not require an employee contribution by the spouse or the spouse's employer does not offer an incentive to the spouse not to enroll. Once covered by another employer's plan, that plan will be the spouse's primary coverage, and the PEBTF plan will be secondary.
c. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the authority of the Board of Trustees to modify or adopt these or other spousal eligibility rules.
40
Section 6. a. The Employer shall allow each individual who was eligible as an active employee under the Fund's health benefits plan to elect coverage upon retirement under the Retired Employees Health Program (hereinafter REHP). In addition, dependency coverage shall be allowed where the dependents of the annuitant qualify under such Program.
b. Employees who retire prior to July 1, 2004 shall be eligible to elect coverage in the REHP plan of benefits in effect on June 30, 2003, as modified by the Employer from time-to-time. Effective July 1, 2004, the Employer will modify the REHP plan of benefits to conform to the medical and prescription benefits in effect for the active employees. Employees retiring on or after July 1, 2004, shall be eligible to elect coverage in the modified REHP plan of benefits. Annuitants who are eligible for Medicare will participate in Medicare supplemental medical plans, and those annuitants who are eligible to enroll in Medicare Part B will not receive benefits through the REHP for benefits which are provided by Medicare Part B. It is understood that the REHP plan of benefits may be amended or modified by the Employer from time-to-time.
c. For those who retire prior to July 1, 2005 and elect REHP coverage, the Employer shall continue to pay the full cost of coverage under the REHP. Those who retire on or after July 1, 2005, and elect REHP coverage shall be required to contribute to the cost of coverage. The annual contribution rate shall be one percent (1.0%) of the employee's final annual gross salary at the time of retirement from State service, and will be payable monthly at the rate of one-twelfth of the annual contribution rate.
d. The REHP is developed and administered in a cost effective and beneficial manner by the Fund, subject only to the prior approval of the Office of Administration and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the REHP Participation Agreement between the Employer and the Fund.
e. The Employer shall continue to pay the cost of coverage, subject to the required annuitant shares, for annuitants who retire under (1), (2) or (3) below and who have elected REHP coverage:
(1) Retirement at or after superannuation age with at least 15 years of credited service (20 years of credited service if retired on or after July 1, 2008) in the State and/or Public School Retirement Systems, except that
(a) an employee who leaves State employment prior to superannuation age and subsequently retires at or after superannuation age must have 25 years of credited service in the State and/or Public School Retirement Systems,
(b) an employee who is furloughed prior to superannuation age and subsequently retires at or after superannuation age during the recall period must have 15 or more years of credited service (20 or more years of credited service if retired on or after July 1, 2008) in the State and/or Public School Retirement Systems,
41
(c) an employee who leaves State employment prior to superannuation age and is subsequently rehired and then retires at or after superannuation age must have 15 or more years of credited service (20 or more years of credited service if retired on or after July 1, 2008) in the State and/or Public School Retirement Systems with at least three years of credited service from the most recent date of reemployment. However, if the departure from State employment was due to furlough and the employee returns during the recall period, this three year requirement will not apply. If the employee had qualified, other than through disability retirement, for Employer paid coverage in the REHP prior to the most recent rehire period, this three year requirement will not apply,
(d) an employee who leaves State employment subsequent to superannuation age and is subsequently rehired and then retires must have 15 or more years of credited service (20 or more years of credited service if retired on or after July 1, 2008) in the State and/or Public School Retirement Systems with at least three years of credited service from the most recent date of reemployment. However, if the departure from State employment was due to furlough and the employee returns during the recall period, this three year requirement will not apply. If the employee had qualified, other than through disability retirement, for Employer paid coverage in the REHP prior to the most recent rehire period, this three year requirement will not apply.
(2) Disability retirement, which requires at least five years of credited service in the State and/or Public School Retirement Systems, except that, if an employee had previously qualified based on an approved disability retirement, then returns and retires under a normal or early retirement, he or she must retire at or after superannuation age with 15 or more years of credited service (20 or more years of credited service if retired on or after July 1, 2008) in the State and/or Public School Retirement Systems or 25 years of credited service in the State and/or Public School Retirement Systems or
(3) Other retirement with at least 25 years of credited service in the State and/or Public School Retirement Systems, except that an employee who leaves State employment, is subsequently rehired and retires must have at least 25 years of credited service in the State and/or Public School Retirement Systems with at least three years of credited service from the most recent date of reemployment. However, if the departure from State employment was due to furlough and the employee returns during the recall period, this three year requirement will not apply. If the employee had qualified, other than through disability retirement, for Employer paid coverage in the REHP prior to the most recent rehire period, this three year requirement will not apply.
(4) All employees who are age 60 or over on March 1, 1992 and also have at least five years of credited service under the Retirement Code, whether it has been purchased as of that date or eligible to be purchased as of that date, will be "grandfathered in" and the total years of service requirement for fully state paid REHP coverage for those employees will be ten years of credited service rather than fifteen. The three-year rehire rule will not apply to such employees.
Section 7. When an employee dies as a result of a work-related accident, the Fund shall continue to provide medical plan benefits and supplemental benefits, as determined and extended
42
by the Fund, to the spouse and eligible dependents of the employee until the spouse remarries or becomes eligible for coverage under another employer's health plan. Annual certification of noncoverage will be required.
The medical plan benefits and supplemental benefits will be converted to the REHP at the time when the employee would have reached age 60.
ARTICLE 22 WORK-RELATED INJURIES
Section 1. An employee who sustains a work-related injury during the term of this Agreement as a result of which the employee is disabled, if so determined by a decision issued under the operation of the Workers' Compensation Program, shall be entitled to use accumulated sick, annual, or personal leave or injury leave without pay. While using accumulated leave, the employee will be paid a supplement to Workers' Compensation of full pay reduced by an amount that yields a net pay, including Workers' Compensation and Social Security Disability Benefits, that is equal to the employee's net pay immediately prior to the injury. Net pay prior to injury is defined as gross base pay minus federal, state, and local withholding, unemployment compensation tax, Social Security and retirement contributions. One full day of accumulated leave (7.5 or 8 hours as appropriate) will be charged for each day the supplement is paid. Accumulated leave and injury leave without pay may be used for an aggregate of l2 months or for the duration of the disability, whichever is lesser, except that, if only accumulated leave is used, it may be used beyond 12 months until exhausted or until the disability ceases, whichever occurs sooner. In no case however will the aggregate of l2 months extend beyond three years from the date the injury occurred. If no leave is available under this Section, the provisions of Section 12 may apply.
For temporary employees, accumulated leave and injury leave without pay shall be available for an aggregate of up to 12 months, for the duration of the disability or for the scheduled duration of the temporary employment, whichever is the least. In no case, however, will the aggregate of 12 months extend beyond three years from the date the injury occurred.
The employee election to use or not use accumulated leave under this section cannot change more than once.
Section 2. An employee who works a reduced number of hours (part-time) due to partial disability may use leave in accordance with Section 1. Pay for accumulated leave used will be calculated in accordance with Section 1, based on the net amount of lost earnings.
Section 3. Retirement credited service for the period of time that the employee is using leave under this Article, shall be determined in accordance with the State Employes' Retirement Code.
Section 4. At the expiration of the leave under Section 1, if an employee continues to receive Workers' Compensation, the employee will be placed on leave without pay in accordance with
43
Section 7 below and will not be entitled to receive state-paid coverage for life insurance and state payments toward coverage for health benefits.
Section 5. An employee is required to refund to the Employer the amount of any overpayment. In no case shall an employee be entitled to full pay and Workers' Compensation and/or Social Security for the same period. The Employer shall recover any amount in excess of the paid supplement to workers' compensation as described in Section 1. Failure to apply for or report Social Security or other applicable disability benefits to the Employer will result in the termination of the leave under Section 1.
Section 6. State-paid coverage for life insurance state payments toward coverage for health benefits as provided in Articles 20 and 2l, will continue for the period of time that the employee is on leave under Sections 1 and 12.
Section 7. An employee has the right to return to a position in the same or equivalent classification held before being disabled, for a period of up to three years from the date the injury occurred provided the employee is fully capable of performing the duties of that position, subject to the furlough provisions of Article 25, Seniority. This guarantee expires if the disability ceases prior to the expiration of the three year period and the employee does not return to work immediately or if the employee retires or otherwise terminates employment. During the period of time between the end of the leave under Section 1 or Sections 12, where applicable and the end of the guarantee in this section, the employee will be on leave without pay.
Disabled employees receiving Workers' Compensation will be notified 90 days prior to the expiration of the three year period. The notification will include information concerning the employee's right to apply for disability retirement, if eligible. If the employee does not receive 90 days notice, the employee's right to return will not be extended. However, the leave without pay will be extended for 90 days from the date of notification to enable the employee if eligible to apply for disability retirement.
The right of return for temporary employees shall be limited to th e scheduled duration of the temporary employment.
Section 8. The compensation for disability retirement arising out of work-related injuries shall be in accordance with the State Employes' Retirement Code.
Section 9. An employee who sustains a work-related injury, during the period of this Agreement, if so
determined by a decision issued under the operation of the Workers' Compensation Program, may use
sick, annual, or personal leave for the purpose of continued medical treatment of the work-related injury
in accordance with Articles 8, 10, and 11. If no paid leave is available, an employee may use leave
without pay. Each absence shall not exceed the minimum amount of time necessary to obtain the
medical treatment. Employees shall make reasonable efforts to schedule medical appointments during
non-work hours or at times that will minimize absence from work. Verification of the length of the
medical appointment may be required. This section is not applicable to any absence for which
Workers'
Compensation
is
payable.
When
44
Compensation is payable, the provisions of Section 1 shall apply.
Section 10. Sections 4, 6, and 8 of this Article shall not apply to temporary employees.
Section 11. Sections 1 through 10, and 12 of this Article shall not be applicable to employees whose injuries are within the scope of either Act l93 of l935, P.L. 477, as amended, or Act 632 of l959, P.L. l7l8, as amended.
Section 12. An employee who is disabled due to a recurrence of a work-related injur y after three years from the date the injury occurred, or before three years if the leave entitlement in Section 1 has been depleted, shall be entitled to use accumulated leave and injury leave without pay while disabled for a period of up to 12 weeks. To be eligible to use injury leave without pay, the employee must have been at work at least 1250 hours within the previous 12 months. The 12 week period will be reduced by any other leave used within the previous 12 months that was designated as leave under the provisions of the Family and Medical Leave Act. If only accumulated leave is used, it may be used beyond 12 weeks until exhausted or until the disability ceases, whichever occurs sooner. While using accumulated leave, the leave will be charged and paid in accordance with Section 1.
Section 13. It is understood by both parties that the provisions of this Article are consistent with the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, USC Section 2601 et seq. and that leave granted in accordance with Sections 1and 12, shall be designated as leave under the provisions of the Act.
Section 14. It is understood by both parties that the provisions of this Article are consistent with the Americans with Disabilities Act.
ARTICLE 23 CLASSIFICATION
Section 1. The position classification plan, as established and maintained by the Employer, consists of a schedule of classification titles with classification specifications for each classification which define and describe representative duties and responsibilities and set forth the minimum requirements and qualifications essential to the work of the classification. Only in those instances where there is a substantial change in permanent job duties or job content during the term of this Agreement which justifies a change in job classification or where a claim of a longstanding misclassification exists may the employees process an appeal for a reallocation of their position through the grievance procedure as set forth below:
STEP I. The employee shall present the grievance in writing to the head of the employee's institution, community health district or agency central office unit or their designee. For grievances seeking the reallocation of a position, the employee shall attach to the grievance a description of the job. Grievances under Section 4 below shall be filed within 15 working days of the occurrence of the action giving rise to the grievance or knowledge of its occurrence.
The institutional or local management designee shall attempt to resolve the matter and report a decision to the Local Union Representative and/or the employee within 15 working days.
STEP II. An appeal from an unfavorable disposition at Step I shall be presented in writing by
45
the employee or the Union representative to the agency head within 15 working days after the response from Step I is due. The agency head or designee shall respond in writing to the employee and Union representative within 15 working days after receipt of the appeal.
STEP III. In the event the grievance has not been satisfactorily resolved in Step II, written appeal may be made by the employee or Union representative within 15 working days of the Step II decision to the Bureau of Personnel, Classification and Pay Division, Office of Administration. Th e appeal shall contain a copy of the grievance, including a description of the job and a copy of the Step I and Step II decisions. The Bureau of Personnel, Classification and Pay Division, Office of Administration, shall issue a decision in writing to the Union within 15 working days after receipt of the appeal.
Employer determinations prior to Step 3 can be reversed by the Office of Administration.
If a determination is made by the Employer in the course of an employee appeal that a position should be upgraded, the employee shall be promoted retroactively to the date the grievance was filed in writing.
If a final determination is made by the Employer in the course of an employee appeal or an Employer-initiated classification review that a position should be downgraded, the employee shall be demoted to the proper classification and pay range at the nearest level (step) not greater than the employee's current salary. If the employee's salary is greater than the maximum level (step) of the lower pay range, there shall be no reduction in salary. The effective date of the classification change shall be the first day of the first pay period subsequent to the response.
If a final determination is made by the Employer in the course of an employee appeal or an Employer-initiated classification review that a position should be reclassified to another class in the same pay range, the effective date of the classification change shall be the first day of the first pay period subsequent to the response.
Section 2. An employee shall be permitted to have a representative of the Union at each step of the grievance procedure up to and including Step III. Regardless of whether or not an employee wants Union representation, a Union representative will be given an opportunity to be present at the adjustment of the grievance and such adjustment will not be inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement.
Upon request by an employee or Union representative, a grievance meeting may be scheduled at Steps II and/or III. Requests for such meetings shall not be unreasonably denied. Such
46
meetings may be rescheduled, if necessary if Union representation is temporarily unavailable to the employee. Where rescheduling occurs, the time limits for response to the grievance will be suspended during the postponement period.
The Union shall furnish the Employer representative with the names and work locations of grievance representatives/delegates and shall notify the Employer of any changes.
A reasonable number of witnesses, when required, shall be allowed to participate in the grievance procedure.
An aggrieved employee and Union representatives, if employees of the Employer, shall be granted reasonable time during working hours, if required, to process grievances in accordance with this Article without loss of pay or leave time.
Nothing in this Article shall interfere with the rights of individual employees or a group of employees to present grievances and to have them adjusted in accordance with the provisions of Section 606 of the Public Employe Relations Act.
Section 3. The Union, in response to an unfavorable decision at Step 3, may submit classification appeals to an arbitration panel. The panel shall consist of three members; one member appointed by the Employer, one member appointed by the Union, and a third member selected by the parties jointly from a list of five names to be mutually agreed upon by the Employer and the Union. The third member shall not be affiliated, directly or indirectly, with any labor organization or be an employee of the Commonwealth and must be knowledgeable in the field of position classification.
The panel shall neither add to, subtract from, nor modify the provisions of this Article nor recommend any alterations or revisions to the Commonwealth's classification and compensation plans. The panel shall be confined to deciding the proper classification in the then existing classification plan for the position in dispute.
The findings of the panel shall be submitted to the parties within 30 days after the hearing or receipt of transcript when taken. The determination of the panel shall be final and binding in those cases where an employee's position is downgraded as a result of an employee appeal or an Employer-initiated classification review. In all other cases the decision of the panel shall be advisory only as to the Employer.
The panel shall meet monthly if necessary for the purpose of hearing appeals under this section.
A grievance that has been appealed to arbitration will be deemed withdrawn six months after the date the grievance was appealed to arbitration unless the case has been scheduled or this timeframe has been extended by mutual agreement. Grievances that are pending arbitration on the effective date of this Agreement will be considered withdrawn six months from the date this Agreement is signed by the parties unless the case has been scheduled or this timeframe has been extended by mutual agreement. The Office of Administration will notify the Union in writing 30 days prior to the expiration of the six month period set forth above and prior to any case being considered withdrawn.
Section 4. The Union recognizes the right of the Employer to direct its working forces, which includes the assignment of work to individual employees, and it further recognizes that such assignments
47
may include work outside an employee's classification. However, it is understood that assignments outside of classification shall be made in a manner consistent with the Employer's operations and organizational requirements.
Whenever an employee within the bargaining unit is temporarily required by the Employer or the circumstances of the situation to perform in general the duties and responsibilities of a position in a higher rated classification that are separate and distinct from those of the employee's own position for a period of any five full cumulative days or ten full one -half cumulative days in a calendar quarter, the employee shall be compensated, retroactive to the time the assignment took place, at an amount equal to four and one half percent of the employee's current rate of pay or at the starting rate of the pay range for the higher classification, whichever is greater. Such employee, while temporarily working and being paid in a higher class, will also be paid at the higher rate for a holiday provided the employee is charged to perform the higher level duties on the employee's scheduled workday immediately before and immediately after such holiday and is paid at the higher rate on those days. The holiday shall not count toward the requirement for five full cumulative days in a quarter. Employees who are charged to perform higher class work for a full day or a full half day and who take leave for a portion of that day will be compensated in increments of one-quarter hour for the partial day worked in the higher class after the five full day or ten full half day threshold has been met. Furthermore, employees who work out of class for less than a full day as a result of overlapping shifts with a higher level position will be paid out of class for all hours worked in the higher class after the five full day or ten full half day threshold has been met. Once the requirement for the five full cumulative day thr eshold or the ten full one half cumulative day threshold has been met, payment will be included in the bi-weekly paycheck. If the position in the higher rated classification is filled permanently by other than the person temporarily filling the position, the person temporarily assigned shall be returned to the person's previous position and compensation, but shall receive any increments and service credits for such increments to which the person would have been entitled had the person remained in the person's normal assignment.
The duties and responsibilities that are separate and distinct from those of the employee's own position means that the work in a position in a higher rated classification includes duties or responsibilities that are different from the work the employee does in the employee's own position, but also means that pay at the higher rate is payable even though both positions may include overlapping duties and responsibilities.
An employee or employees shall not be temporarily assigned to perform in general the duties and responsibilities of a position in a higher rated classification for more than nine continuous months or the length of the leave of absence of the employee being replaced, whichever is greater.
48
In addition, if the Employer assigns an employee on a temporary basis to a lower classification or if an employee performs some duties and functions assigned to a lower classification, the employee so assigned shall receive the compensation of the higher level to which the employee is regularly assigned. The Employer, however, at any individual work site shall make such assignments on a non-discriminatory basis so as to equalize the same among the employees within the classification from which assignments are made, so long as such equalization does not interfere with efficient operating procedures.
Grievances arising from the provisions of this section shall be submitted in writing and the employee shall attempt to include the dates on which the alleged out of class work occurred and a description of the alleged higher level work performed. The failure of the employee to provide the required information will not affect the validity of the grievance. Grievances pertaining to this section may be processed through an arbitration panel consisting of one Union staff member, one staff member of the Employer, and one permanent arbitrator jointly selected by the parties who is knowledgeable in the field of position classification. The decision of the arbitration panel shall be final and binding.
For the purpose of this Section, the calendar quarters shall be defined as beginning with the first full pay period in January through March 31, April 1 through June 30, July 1 through September 30, and October 1 through the last full pay period of the leave calendar year, which is the pay period that includes December 31.
Section 5. Under Sections 3 and 4 above, all fees and expenses of the arbitrator shall be divided equally between the parties except where one of the parties of this Agreement requests a postponement of a previously scheduled arbitration meeting which results in a postponement charge. The postponing party shall pay such charge unless such postponement results in a settlement of the appeal in which event the postponement charge shall be divided equally by the parties. Each party shall bear the costs of preparing and presenting its own case. Either party desiring a record of the proceedings shall pay for the record and make a copy available without charge to the arbitrator.
Section 6. The Employer shall notify the Union of class specification revisions to all classes that are presently in the certified bargaining unit for which the Union is the representative and of class specifications and pay ranges of proposed classes that the Employer may reasonably anticipate will be placed in the certified bargaining unit, prior to the submission of these changes to the Executive Board of the Commonwealth. The Union will submit its comments, in writing, to the Employer within l5 working days of receipt of the notification. If written comments are not received from the Union within l5 working days, the Employer will contact the Union, by telephone, before submitting the proposals to the Executive Board. Reasonable written requests by the Union for time extensions will be granted. In addition, the Employer shall notify the Union of the commencement of classification studies of classifications in this bargaining unit.
49
ARTICLE 24 DISCHARGE, DEMOTION, SUSPENSION AND DISCIPLINE
Section 1. The Employer shall not demote, suspend, discharge or take any disciplinary action against an employee without just cause. An employee may appeal a demotion, suspension, or discharge beginning at the first step of the grievance procedure within 15 working days of the date of its occurrence. The Union shall be notified promptly by the Employer of any demotion, suspension, or discharge.
Section 2. Any action instituted under Section l of this Article shall be implemented within a reasonable period of time after the event giving rise to such disciplinary action or knowledge thereof.
Section 3. In the event any action is taken by the Employer under the provisions of this Article which involves patient/resident/inmate/client abuse and a grievance is filed by an employee, the
arbitrator shall not consider the failure of the patient/resident/inmate/client to appear as prejudicial.
Section 4. The Employer will attempt to discipline employees in such a manner so as not to embarrass the employee before the public or other employees. It must be kept in mind, however, that where insubordination or flouting of authority by an employee in public and in the presence of other employees takes place, the Employer shall not be restricted by the operation of this section. The Employer will not take any disciplinary action against employees for appropriately advocating or appropriately attempting to bring about improvements in standards of patient care.
Section 5. The provisions of this Article shall not apply during an employee's probationary period which shall be the initial 180 calendar days of employment except for employees in trainee classes whose probationary period shall coincide with the trainee period. The probationary period can be extended by mutual agreement between the Union and the Employer for an additional period during which time Section l shall not apply. Periods of leave without pay and periods of time during which an employee is using paid leave to supplement Workers' Compensation shall not count toward the initial probationary period or any extension period.
Section 6. This Article shall not apply to demotions resulting from an employee appeal, an Employer-initiated classification review or unsuccessful completion of a probationary period upon promotion.
Section 7. After a period of two years, a written reprimand or reference to an oral reprimand shall be removed from the employee's official personnel folder if no intervening incidents of the same or a similar nature have occurred.
Section 8. The Employer and the Union agree to continue the alternative forms of discipline in lieu of suspension actions program in accordance with the side letter.
50
ARTICLE 25 SENIORITY
Section 1. a. Under the terms of this Agreement, the term "seniority" means a preferred position for specific purposes which one employee within a seniority unit may have over another employee within the same seniority unit because of a greater length of service within the state government or a particular organizational or occupational segment thereof.
(1) The seniority unit for lateral transfer and furlough shall consist of that group of employees in an institution or a Department of Health District or the Department of Health Central Office within which seniority preference is exercised.
(2) Unless otherwise stated herein, seniority refers to Bargaining Unit seniority.
(3) Bargaining Unit seniority standing shall be determined by the length of unbroken (as defined in Section 2) service with the Employer subsequent to July l, l973, in bargaining unit classifications covered by this agreement and service prior to July 1, 1998, in classifications covered by the nursing and medical supportive services first-level supervisory unit. For employees who occupied a bargaining unit classification covered by this agreement on July l, l973, all unbroken service with the Employer prior to July l, l973, will be counted toward Bargaining Unit seniority including leaves of absence without pay of one year or less. Employees who did not occupy a bargaining unit classification on July l, l973, but did so prior to that date, will have such service counted toward Bargaining Unit seniority, if there has been no break in service, including leaves of absence without pay of one year or less.
Effective July 1, 1991, employees will accrue Bargaining Unit seniority during legal strike absences.
(4) Employees who served in the Armed Forces of the United States during periods of time listed below shall be responsible for providing proof of military service to their human resource officer within 60 days of their first day of work in order to receive seniority credit in accordance with the Veterans' Preference Act, 51 Pa. C.S. 7107 et seq. Failure to provide the required proof of service during the time period shall bar the employee or Union from claiming credit for such service at a later date.
Applicable periods are as follows:
1. World War I - April 6, l9l7 - November ll, l9l8 2. World War II - December 7, l94l - September 2, l945 3. Korea - June 25, l950 - July 27, l953 4. Vietnam - August 5, l964 - January 28, l973
b. Seniority credit for each employee is maintained as a total number of days. Employees will accrue seniority in accordance with the following procedure: The number of
51
regular hours paid each bi-weekly pay period plus the number of hours approved Leave without Pay will be accumulated. This total number of hours will be divided by 7.5 or 8 as applicable and rounded up to the next higher day. The result will be added to the employee's accumulated total.
Section 2. The following shall constitute a break in service: resignation, separation for just cause, retirement, absence without leave for five consecutive working days, failure to report within ten consecutive working days of recall, expiration of recall period, failure to report after leave, and acceptance of other permanent employment while on leave. This shall not restrict the Employer's right to take whatever personnel action it deems warranted for any of the above. If service is broken by any of the above, the employee shall lose Bargaining Unit seniority. If an employee is returned within one year after such break in service, the employee shall be entitled to credit for seniority purposes for the time accrued up to the time break in service occurred, but shall not be entitled to any credit for the time represented by such break in service.
Employees who are furloughed and who file applications for retirement benefits which are subsequently approved, will be considered to have a break in service as of the date of the approval of benefits by the State Employes' Retirement Board.
A furloughed employee who applies for and receives retirement benefits from the State Employes' Retirement Board shall forfeit all recall rights as of the date of approval of benefits by the State Employes' Retirement Board.
Section 3. Seniority lists shall be prepared for each seniority group and revised where necessary every six months. Appropriate service information shall be shown thereon to permit application of various seniority provisions. Such lists shall include both full-time and part-time employees and shall be posted on the appropriate bulletin boards. Seniority lists shall be provided to the designated local facility representative upon request not more than once every six months.
Section 4. Postings: The Employer agrees that all vacancies (such as those positions vacated through resignation, retirement or permanent transfer of an incumbent or positions newly created by the Employer) which are to be filled within the bargaining unit will be posted at appropriate work locations within appropriate seniority units prior to the filling of such vacancies for a period of at least 10 calendar days unless otherwise provided for in this Agreement or unless an emergency requires a lesser period of time.
Section 5. Furloughs and Bumping: When the Employer determines that a furlough is necessary within a seniority unit, employees will be furloughed in the inverse order of Bargaining Unit seniority. Employees affected by furlough who have the requisite seniority and skill and ability shall bump laterally or down in the following manner:
a. If an employee is affected by furlough the employee shall bump laterally within the classification within the seniority unit as defined in Section l a(l) provided that the employee has more Bargaining Unit seniority than the employee with the least Bargaining Unit seniority in that classification and has the requisite skill and ability.
52
b . If the affected employee is unable under Section a. above to bump within the classification the employee shall bump laterally or down within the seniority unit as defined in Section l a(l) into any other classification previously held within the bargaining unit using the seniority procedure specified in a. above.
c. If the affected employee is unable to bump into any position as provided in subsections a. and b. above, the employee shall be furloughed.
d. If an employee refuses to exercise rights under this Section, the employee shall forfeit all further bumping rights under this Section, recall rights under Section 7 of this Article to positions in all classifications except the one from which the employee was furloughed, and placement rights under Section 11 of this Article.
e. Where practicable, the Employer will notify the Union one month in advance of any impending furlough.
An employee in a Community Health District who is subject to reassignment to a
different state health center as a result of a reduction of the work force and who refuses such assignment
will be furloughed.
Section 6. Before any furlough is implemented in a classification in the classified service in a seniority unit, all emergency employees will be separated before any temporary employees; temporary employees will be separated before any provisional employees; and all provisional employees will be separated before any probationary employees or any regular status members of the classified service are furloughed.
Section 7. Recall: The Employer shall establish a recall list by classification by seniority unit for those employees furloughed under Section 5 of this Article in the inverse order of seniority.
a.
Employees on such recall lists shall have rights to a position in a classification within the
--
53
shall be offered the next opportunity for recall, provided the employee's three year recall period has not expired.
e. The recall period of a furloughed employee who, during the recall period, returns to the furloughing agency's payroll in a temporary capacity shall be extended by the amount of time the employee serves in the temporary capacity.
A furloughed employee who, during a recall period, returns to the Employer's payroll in
a temporary capacity shall upon recall from the furlough to permanent employment, be credited with
seniority for the amount of time spent in the temporary capacity.
g. During the recall period employees may be offered recall to either temporary or part-time positions. If an employee refuses an offer of either temporary or part-time recall, the employee forfeits all further recall rights to the type of employment refused. The employee will retain recall rights to permanent, full-time employment for which the employee is eligible.
h. A furloughed employee who, during a recall period, returns to the Employer's payroll in a temporary capacity shall be eligible for all benefits enjoyed by permanent employees provided other applicable eligibility requirements are met.
i.
A community health employee who is furloughed may refuse recall to a state health
center different from the one from which furloughed without forfeiture of recall rights.
j.
The Employer will provide the Union with a copy of all recall lists.
k. A furloughed employee who applies for and receives retirement benefits from the State Employes' Retirement Board shall forfeit all recall rights under this section as of the date of the approval of benefits by the State Employes' Retirement Board.
Section 8. Employees desiring to transfer to another position in the same classification on a different shift in the seniority unit shall submit a written request to the local human resource office within the time period specified on the posting.
Filling of vacancies, shift preference and the realignment of staff will be accomplished in the following manner:
a. Filling a Registered Nurse vacancy (as defined in Article 25, Section 4).
(1) When a Registered Nurse vacancy occurs it shall be posted for ten (10) days. Employees in the Registered Nurse classification may bid for the vacancy as a lateral transfer between shifts. The bidding employee with the greatest bargaining unit seniority who possesses the requisite skill and ability will be awarded the position.
(2) The Registered Nurse position vacated by the lateral transfer between shifts and any subsequent resulting Registered Nurse vacancies will be posted for ten (10) days. Employees in the
54
Registered Nurse classification may bid for the vacancy as a lateral transfer between shifts. After the bids are received, the Employer, in its sole discretion, will choose to fill the vacancy by lateral transfer between shifts or by appointing an individual from outside the seniority unit who expresses an interest in the position or whose name appears on the appropriate Civil Service list. If the method chosen is lateral transfer between shifts, the employee with the greatest bargaining unit seniority who bids on a lateral transfer between shifts and who possesses the requisite skill and ability will be awarded the position. Any resulting vacancy will be posted and filled in accordance with this subsection until the Employer in its sole discretion chooses to fill the vacancy by appointing an individual from outside the seniority unit.
b. Filling a Forensic Registered Nurse vacancy (as defined in Article 25, Section 4)
(1) When a Forensic Registered Nurse vacancy occurs it shall be posted for ten (10) days. Employees in the Forensic Registered Nurse classification may bid for the vacancy as a lateral transfer between shifts. The bidding employee in the Forensic Registered Nurse classification with the greatest bargaining unit seniority who possesses the requisite skill and ability will be awarded the position.
(2) The Forensic Registered Nurse position vacated by the lateral transfer between shifts and any subsequent resulting vacancies will be posted for ten (10) days. Employees in the Forensic Registered Nurse classification may bid for the vacancy as a lateral transfer between shifts. After the bids are received, the Employer, in its sole discretion, will choose to fill the vacancy by lateral transfer between shifts or by reassigning the most senior Registered Nurse at the same work location who expresses an interest in the position.
(3) If the method chosen is lateral transfer between shifts, the employee with the greatest bargaining unit seniority who bids on a lateral transfer between shifts and who possesses the requisite skill and ability will be awarded the position.
(4) If the method chosen is the reassignment of the most senior Registered Nurse who expresses interest in the position, the employee will be reassigned with the appropriate increase in salary for a six month period during which the employee's work performance will be assessed. If the employee passes the assessment period, the employee's classification will be changed retroactive to the date of the initial assignment. If the employee's work performance is unacceptable and the reassignment is terminated with an appropriate decrease in salary, the employee or the union may follow the review process contained in the side letter between the parties. The termination of a FRN Nurse work assignment will not be arbitrary or capricious.
(5) Any resulting vacancy will be posted and filled in accordance with this subsection.
c. Filling a Community Health Nurse vacancy ( as defined by Article 25, Section 4)
(1) When a vacancy within a Health District office or a Health Center occurs it shall be posted for ten (10) days. Employees in the Community Health Nurse classification may bid for the vacancy. The bidding employee in the Community Health Nurse classification with the greatest bargaining unit seniority who possesses the requisite skill and ability will be awarded the
55
position. If no bidding employee possesses the requisite skill and ability to perform the duties of the posted position, the employer may fill the position using the appropriate Civil Service list.
(3) The Community Health Nurse position vacated by the lateral transfer and any subsequent resulting vacancies will be posted for ten (10) days. Employees in the Community Health Nurse classification may bid for the vacancy. After the bids are received, the employer, in its sole discretion, will choose to fill the vacancy by lateral transfer within the Community Health District or by appointing an individual from outside the Health District who expressed an interest in the position or by appointing an individual whose name appears on the appropriate Civil Service list.
d. Filling a Public Health Program Representative vacancy ( as defined by Article 25, Section 4)
(1) When a vacancy within a Health District office or a Health Center occurs it shall be posted for ten (10) days. Employees in the Public Health Program Representative classification may bid for the vacancy. The bidding employee in the Public Health Program Representative classification with the greatest bargaining unit seniority who possesses the requisite skill and ability will be awarded the position. If no bidding employee possesses the requisite skill and ability to perform the duties of the posted position, the employer may fill the position using the appropriate Civil Service list.
(2) The Public Health Program Representative position vacated by the lateral transfer and any subsequent resulting vacancies will be posted for ten (10) days. Employees in the Public Health Program Representative classification may bid for the vacancy. After the bids are received, the employer, in its sole discretion, will choose to fill the vacancy by lateral transfer within the Community Health District or by appointing an individual from outside the Health District who expressed an interest in the position or by appointing an individual whose name appears on the appropriate Civil Service list.
e. Realignment of Registered Nurse staff when no vacancy (as defined by Article 25, Section 4) exists.
(1) When a realignment of staff is necessary, between shifts, the Employer will seek volunteers who possess the requisite skill and ability, and if applicable, related work experience, from the classification on the shift which will be losing staff. The Employer, in its sole discretion, will choose from among such volunteers, the employee to be reassigned. The Employer's decision will not be arbitrary or capricious. If there are no volunteers, the employee with the least bargaining unit seniority in the classification who possesses the requisite skill and ability on the shift which will be losing staff, will be reassigned.
(2) Where feasible, ten calendar days before realignment of staff occurs, the local union will be notified of the reason for and the scope of the realignment.
f. Realignment of Forensic Registered Nurse staff when no vacancy (as defined by Article 25, Section 4) exists.
56
(1) When a realignment of staff is necessary, between shifts, the Employer will seek volunteers who possess the requisite skill and ability, and if applicable, related work experience, from the classification on the shift which will be losing staff. The Employer, in its sole discretion, will choose from among such volunteers, the employee to be reassigned. The Employer's decision will not be arbitrary or capricious. If there are no volunteers, the employee with the least bargaining unit seniority in the classification who possesses the requisite skill and ability on the shift which will be losing staff, will be reassigned.
g. For the purpose of this section, lateral transfer means movement from one position to another within the same classification.
h. All postings referred to in a. above will contain the classification and shift of the position to be filled.
Nothing contained above shall impair the Employer's right to reassign/transfer employees between patient care areas on the same shift.
It is understood that the recall provisions of Section 7 and the placement provisions of Section 11 of this Article supersede the provisions of a.(2), b.(2), c.(2) and d.(2) above.
i. Involuntary transfer from one state health center to another within a seniority unit shall be in inverse order of bargaining unit seniority.
Section 9. Grievances relating to the interpretation, application and implementation of Sections 5, 6, 7, 11, 13 and 14 of this Article shall be filed at the first step. Arbitrations of grievances relating to these sections shall be conducted by a panel of three members: one to be appointed by the Office of Administration, one to be appointed by the Union, and the third to be selected by the Employer from a list of five names to be mutually agreed upon by the Employer and the Union. Such third member shall not be affiliated, directly or indirectly with any labor organizations or be an employee of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. The decision of the panel, hereinbefore described, shall be final and binding on the parties to the Agreement. The panel shall meet monthly for the purpose of adjusting grievances under this section.
Section 10. When in the exercise of seniority rights provided hereunder, two or more employees are deemed relatively equal in skill and ability and have the same seniority date or amount of seniority, preferential rights shall be determined by lot.
Section 11. Placement: If an employee is unable to execute a bump as provided by Article 25, Section 5, and is placed on a furlough list, the Commonwealth will attempt to place the employee in a budgeted, available, uncommitted vacancy in a classification covered by the Agreement to which there are no seniority claims in the following manner:
57
a. Placement will be to positions in classifications outside the employee's seniority unit in the same or lower pay range covered by the Agreement in agencies under the jurisdiction of the Governor and will be carried out in an order consistent with the bumping order outlined in Article 25, Section 5, provided the employee possesses the requisite skill and ability. If such placement is not possible, the employee will be placed in a position covered by this Agreement for which the employee qualifies, provided the pay range for the classification is equal to or lower than the pay range for the employee's classification at the time of furlough.
b. Geographic limitations for the application of this Section will be designated by the employee by completing a placement questionnaire. The employee may choose up to ten counties in which the employee would be available or a statewide availability. The provisions of this Section will be implemented at the time the employee's completed placement questionnaires are received by the Secretary of Administration or designee and will continue for twelve months from the date of furlough. The provisions of this section will not be implemented for employees who do not return a completed placement questionnaire.
c. Placement will be made in order of Bargaining Unit seniority; however, employees with an earlier furlough date will be placed in vacancies before employees with a later furlough date.
d. Civil service employees will have placement rights only to civil service vacancies, except that if an appropriate vacancy in a civil service position is not available and an employee previously held a non-civil service position in a classification to which the employee would have rights under this section, placement in that non-civil service classification will be attempted consistent with the requirements outlined in paragraph l of this section. Non-civil service employees will have placement rights only to non-civil service vacancies, except that if an appropriate vacancy in a non-civil service position is not available and the employee previously was a member of the classified service in a classification to which the employee would have rights under this Section, placement in that civil service classification will be attempted consistent with the requirements outlined in paragraph one of this Section and in accordance with the Civil Service Act and Rules.
e.
Employees will be offered placement in one vacant position. If an employee declines
the offer of placement, the employee's rights under this section cease. The furloughed employee shall
retain recall rights as outlined in Article 25, Section 7.
Employees placed in vacancies in the same classification from which they were
furloughed will lose recall rights as outlined by Article 25, Section 7. Those employees placed in a
lower classification will retain their recall rights under Article 25, Section 7.
g. If an employee accepts an offer of placement under this Section, any other placement rights to which the employee may be entitled under this Section cease. In addition, such employee shall complete an "Availability for Temporary Employment" questionnaire. If an employee indicates a desire not to be offered placement to temporary positions no such offers will
58
be made and placement rights to permanent positions will not be affected. However, if an employee indicates a desire to be offered a temporary position and refuses such an offer, the employee shall forfeit all placement rights.
Section 12. A regular or probationary employee whose position is either transferred to another agency or reassigned to another geographic location within an agency shall not be furloughed or terminated as the result of such reassignment or transfer unless the employee refuses the position in its new location. If the employee accepts the transfer or reassignment, the employee shall retain seniority credits.
Section 13. Employees who formerly occupied classifications included in this Agreement, and who are not now in the bargaining unit and are affected by furlough may not bump into classifications previously held in this bargaining unit.
Section 14. Permanent part-time employees will have the right to use their seniority to bid and be selected for permanent full- time vacancies that occur in the same classification within the seniority unit.
Section 15. Prior to filling a vacancy from a Civil Service list, temporary employees and PRN Nurses have the right to bid and be selected for vacancies within the seniority unit as follows, provided they are reachable on the appropriate Civil Service list:
1. Temporary employees will have the right to bid and be selected for vacancies in the same class series.
2. PRN Nurses will have the right to bid and be selected for vacancies in the Registered Nurse and Forensic Registered Nurse classifications.
If a temporary employee and a PRN Nurse bid on the same position, the most senior employee will be awarded the position subject to the requirements of this section.
--
ARTICLE 32 PERSONNEL RECORDS
There shall be an official personnel file for each employee. The contents of an employee's personnel file, excluding pre-employment information, is available for examination by the employee. Such examination shall be at the location where the personnel file is maintained and shall be conducted in the presence of the human resource officer or designee. Material shall not be removed from or added to the folder nor shall its contents be altered in any way. Employees are entitled to have a representative with them while reviewing their own file. If there is any disagreement as to the contents of the personnel file, an employee shall have the right to submit a statement concerning any materials in the employee's file and any such statement shall then become part of the personnel file. At the time that any adverse material is placed in the official personnel file, a copy will be sent to the employee.
ARTICLE 33 EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
Section 1. If any provisions of this Agreement are in conflict with Federal Executive Orders ll246 and ll375, as amended, and the Civil Rights Act of l964, and all laws and rules relating to the Commonwealth's Equal Employment Opportunity Program, and the Americans with Disabilities Act, the provisions of such orders, laws and implementing regulations shall prevail.
Disputes regarding the application and implementation of the Orders, laws and implementing regulations shall be subject to arbitration.
62
This provision does not constitute a waiver of rights under Act 195.
Section 2. Men are a small minority in professional nursing. Nothing in this Article shall have the effect of limiting, hindering, or discouraging the employment of men qualified as registered nurses into positions covered by this Agreement, or their assignment, upgrading or promotion from one position to another such position.
ARTICLE 34 ACCELERATED GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Section 1. Where an employee of the Commonwealth represented by District 1199P, Service Employees International Union, AFL-CIO, CLC, has the right to process a grievance through either the procedure provided herein or through the Pennsylvania Civil Service Commission and files an appeal with the Commission, either the contract grievance procedure shall cease, if the employee has submitted a contract grievance, or the employee shall not be entitled to institute proceedings under the contract grievance procedure. If the appeal to the Commission is withdrawn by the employee or not accepted by the Commission within the time limits prescribed in Section 2 of this Article, the processing of a timely filed contract grievance shall be permitted. Additionally, if the appeal to the Commission is not accepted outside the time limits prescribed in Section 2 of this Article, the employee shall be entitled to institute proceedings under the contract grievance procedure within fifteen (15) working days of the date of the Commission's denial of appeal. Any grievance appealed outside the fifteen (15) working day limit shall be considered untimely filed.
Section 2. Any grievance or dispute which may arise during the term of this Agreement concerning the application, meaning, or interpretation of this Agreement except for grievances alleging a violation of Article 23 shall be processed in the following manner:
STEP 1. The employee, either alone, or accompanied by a Union Representative, or the Union Representative, where entitled, shall present the grievance in writing to the Employer's worksite designee within fifteen (15) working days of the date of the occurrence giving rise to the dispute, or when the employee knew or by reasonable diligence should have known of the occurrence.
In addition, in order for a grievance to be discussed at Step 1, the respective Employer worksite designee must have received a written confirmation of the grievance at least fifteen (15) working days prior to the prescheduled Step 1 meeting. This period may, however, be modified by mutual agreement.
The parties agree the respective Employer designee and the Union counterpart must schedule and meet on a monthly Step 1 basis, if necessary, in order to attempt to resolve all outstanding grievances. At the Step 1 meeting, the parties will advise each other of all of the then known facts, including witnesses, and furnish copies of relevant reports or investigations upon which the party will rely in proving and/or supporting its respective position.
63
When special circumstances preclude the disclosure of confidential patient, resident, client, student or inmate information at the Step 1 meeting, the case will be handled in accordance with the agreed upon procedures to be developed by the parties.
Any agreed upon final settlement of a grievance reached at Step 1 shall be reduced to writing and signed by the Union and the Employer designee. Decisions at Step 1 shall not be used as precedent for any subsequent case.
After the Step 1 meeting has been held, and the then known information the parties intend to rely on to support their respective positions has been discussed and exchanged, the respective Employer designee must, if the case is not settled at this point, make a written disposition of the matter to the Union within fifteen (15) working days from the date of the Step 1 meeting.
STEP 2. If the Step 1 response is not satisfactory, or a response has not been received by the Union within fifteen (15) working days of the Step 1 meeting, the Union shall have fifteen (15) working days after the Commonwealth's response is received or due, to appeal the decision by filing its grievance with the Joint Pennsylvania State Committee. Such submission, in a form to be established by the Committee, shall be made in writing, and shall be filed in accordance with the established procedures with the Office of Administration, Bureau of Labor Relations (OA-BLR). This office will officially "docket" all grievances submitted by the Union and will furnish official notice confirming the docketing of all cases scheduled to be heard by the State Committee, along with the date, place, and time of the scheduled meeting. Dockets will be sent to the affected Employer (Division of Labor Relations) and District 1199P, Service Employees International Union, AFL-CIO, CLC.
Failure of the Union to submit grievances to the Joint Pennsylvania State Committee within the fifteen (15) day appeal period specified above, shall be cause for the Commonwealth to consider the matter "settled and withdrawn." Any later discovered or developed evidence, not previously disclosed to the other party at the Step 1 meeting must be submitted to the other side as soon as practical after discovery and/or development, but in no event later than 48 hours before the Step 2 hearing. (See Rule 4, Section 3 of the Rules of Procedure, Appendix E, for Exceptions).
Decisions of the Joint Pennsylvania State Committee shall operate as precedent.
The Committee at Step 2 shall have the right to hear testimony from both parties, investigate all relevant facts and render a final and binding decision. Each case shall be considered on its merits and the collective bargaining agreement shall constitute the basis upon which the decision shall be rendered.
The Committee shall neither add to, subtract from, nor modify the provisions of the Agreement. The Committee shall be confined to the precise issue submitted, as outlined on the original grievance form, and shall have no authority to determine any other issues not so submitted. If the Joint Pennsylvania State Committee is unable to reach a decision by majority vote, the matter will be considered "deadlocked".
64
STEP 3. An appeal from a deadlocked decision at Step 2 may be initiated by the Union, by written notice of the intent to proceed to arbitration. This notice must be sent within fifteen (15) working days after the deadlocked decision from Step 2 to the Office of Administration (Bureau of Labor Relations), and the affected Employer (Division of Labor Relations) when the appeal is filed.
Arbitration
The impartial arbitrator is to be selected by agreement between the respective Co-Chairpersons of the Joint Pennsylvania State Committee within fifteen (15) working days after the notice has been given. If the parties fail to agree on an impartial arbitrator, either party may request the Bureau of Mediation to submit a list of seven (7) possible arbitrators to the respective Co-Chairpersons.
The Co-Chairpersons shall, within fifteen (15) working days of the receipt of said list, select the arbitrator by alternately striking one name from the list until one name remains. The Employer Chairperson shall strike the first name.
Each case shall be considered on its merits and the collective bargaining agreement shall constitute the basis upon which the decision shall be rendered.
The arbitrator shall neither add to, subtract from, nor modify the provisions of the Agreement.
The arbitrator shall be confined to the precise issue submitted for arbitration and shall have no authority to determine any other issues not so submitted.
A decision of the Step 2 Joint State Committee or by the arbitrator shall be final and binding on both parties. The arbitrator shall be required to issue a decision within thirty (30) days after the close of the hearing.
Time Limits
All of the time limits contained in this section may be modified by mutual agreement. The granting of any modification at any step shall not be deemed to establish a precedent.
Costs
Each party shall bear the costs of preparing and presenting its own case. All fees and expenses of the arbitrator shall be divided equally between the parties, except where one of the parties to this Agreement requests a postponement of a previously scheduled arbitration hearing which results in a postponement charge. The postponing party shall pay such charge unless such postponement results in a settlement of the grievance, in which event the postponement charge shall be divided by the parties.
65
A postponement charge resulting from a joint postponement request shall be shared equally by the parties.
Either party desiring a record of the proceedings shall pay for the record and make a copy available without charge to the arbitrator.
Section 3. An employee shall be permitted to have a representative of the Union present at each step of the grievance procedure, up to and including Step 2; subject, however, to Section 606, Article VI of the Public Employe Relations Act. Upon request by a Union representative, a Step 1 grievance meeting will be postponed or rescheduled, if necessary, if a Union Representative is temporarily unavailable to the employee. Where this occurs, the time limits for response to the grievance will be suspended during the postponement period.
Delegates
Employees selected by the Union to act as Union representatives shall be known as delegates. The Union shall furnish the Commonwealth with the names and work locations of grievance representatives and shall notify the Commonwealth of any changes.
Lost Time
A reasonable number of witnesses shall be permitted to attend Committee meetings without suffering the loss of any pay, when their presence is required because of the Commonwealth's refusal to accept the witnesses' written statement, as provided for in the attached Rules of Procedure (Appendix F). Grievants shall be treated in exactly the same manner as witnesses under this procedure.
An employee who presents a grievance or sits on a Joint State Committee Panel, shall do so with pay, provided the Union has indicated their desire to have that person participate in the procedure. The number of employees so designated shall not be abused.
State/Agency Wide Grievances
The Union may present grievances concerning agency-wide actions or state-wide actions directly to Step 2 within fifteen (15) working days of the date of the occurrence giving rise to the dispute, or the date when the Union knew, or by reasonable diligence should have known, of its occurrence. However, the Union will meet with the official affected Employer or Office of Administration designee prior to any hearing on such grievances, in order to resolve any factual disputes relating to such Agency-wide or State-wide grievances.
Section 4. The Joint Pennsylvania State Committee will function under the attached Rules of Procedure, which are contained in Appendix E.
66
ARTICLE 35 MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
Section 1. It is understood and agreed that the Commonwealth, at its sound discretion, possesses the right, in accordance with applicable laws, to manage all operations including the direction of the working force, and the right to plan, direct, and control the operation of all equipment and other property of the Commonwealth, except as modified by this Agreement.
Matters of inherent managerial policy are reserved exclusively to the Commonwealth. These include but shall not be limited to such areas of discretion or policy as the functions and programs of the Commonwealth, standards of service, its overall budget, utilization of technology, the organizational structure and selection and direction of personnel.
Section 2. The listing of specific rights in this Article is not intended to be nor should be considered restrictive or a waiver of any of the rights of management not listed and not specifically surrendered herein whether or not such rights have been exercised by the Commonwealth in the past.
ARTICLE 36 CONSULTATION
Section l. Committees of Union representatives may meet with Employer representatives at local, agency, or state level to resolve problems dealing with the implementation of this Agreement and to discuss other labor-management problems that may arise, either upon request or at regular intervals. The levels at which these committees are to function may be determined by agency negotiations.
--
67
Representatives to this committee shall come from the Office of Administration, the Agencies which employ District 1199P/SEIU represented employees, District 1199P/SEIU and the OPEIU Healthcare Pennsylvania, Local 112. The purpose of this committee shall be to discuss and to attempt to resolve statewide issues relating to Commonwealth nursing practices and standards, scheduling, hours of work, and other workplace concerns as identified by committee representatives. Committee representatives shall have access to relevant and necessary information to enable them to intelligently and productively raise concerns and discuss the issues. The committee shall at a minimum, meet annually and more often as the parties agree. (Note: It is not the intent of the parties that this committee deal with issues which are local in nature, nor is it their intent that this committee supplant local efforts to deal with the issues referenced above.) Committee recommendations will be submitted to relevant agencies. Actions taken, or not taken by the agency in response to the recommendation shall not be arbitrary or capricious.
ARTICLE 37 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Section 1. In the event that any provisions of this Agreement are found to be inconsistent with existing statutes or ordinances, the provisions of such statutes or ordinances shall prevail, and if any provision herein is found to be invalid and unenforceable by a court or other authority having jurisdiction, then such provision shall be considered void, but all other valid provisions shall remain in full force and effect. The parties, however, shall, at the request of either, meet and discuss on the subject matter involved in any invalid provision.
Section 2. The Commonwealth and the Union acknowledge that this Agreement represents the results of collective negotiations between said parties conducted under and in accordance with the provisions of the Public Employe Relations Act and constitutes the entire agreement between the parties for the duration of the life of said Agreement; each party waiving the right to bargain collectively with each other with reference to any other subject, matter, issue, or thing whether specifically covered herein or wholly omitted here from and irrespective of whether said subject was mentioned or discussed during the negotiations preceding the execution of this Agreement.
Section 3. In the event that any provision of this Agreement requires legislative action to become effective, including but not limited to the amendment of existing statutes, the adoption of new legislation, or the granting of appropriations, it sha ll become effective only if such legislative action is taken. The parties, however, mutually agree to make recommendations to the Legislature which may be necessary to give force and effect to the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 4. Where the term "meet and discuss" is used in this Agreement it will be deemed to have the meaning of that term as defined and applied under the Public Employe Relations Act.
Section 5. Ratings shall be completed by supervisors who are familiar with the work performance of the employee. This shall in no way affect review procedures.
Section 6.
Employee benefits and working conditions now existing and not in conflict with the
68
Agreement shall remain in effect subject, however, to the right of the Employer to change these benefits or working conditions in the exercise of its management rights reserved to it under Article 35 of this Agreement.
Section 7. It is understood between the parties hereto that negotiations may be engaged in between the Union and the Employer (representatives of the Governor's Office) as to working conditions which are peculiar to a particular agency, department or institution, community health district or Health Department Central Office unit; subject, however, to the provisions of this Agreement. The results of such negotiations shall become supplements to this Agreement.
Section 8. law.
Employees shall be eligible for unemployment compensation benefits as provided by
Section 9. The Employer shall furnish an employee with a copy of a rule or directive which has been issued in writing by the Employer and which is applicable to the employee's work situation. This requirement applies only to specific rules or directives which have been requested and does not require the Employer to furnish copies of manuals or compiled sets of rules to employees.
Section 10. The Employer shall provide adequate eating and sanitary facilities at all permanent locations, which shall be properly heated and ventilated. For purposes of this Article, leased space shall not be considered a permanent location. In addition, the Employer shall provide adequate eating and sanitary facilities in all locations where the lease agreement is executed subsequent to the date of this Agreement.
Section 11. In the event the Public Employe Relations Act is amended during the term of this Agreement, the parties agree to negotiate concerning the amendments to determine whether or not this Agreement should be amended to incorporate changes permitted by the amendments to the Act. It is clearly understood that if this Agreement is reopened for negotiations for this purpose, the provisions of Article 30, Peace and Stability, will remain in full force and effect.
Section l2. All letters of agreement between the Bureau of Labor Relations and District 1199P, Service Employees International Union, AFL-CIO, CLC, shall remain in effect if applicable.
Section 13. A position shall not be filled by a temporary employee or employees for more than l2 consecutive months or the length of a leave of absence of the employee being replaced, whichever is greater.
Section 14. The Employer agrees to continue in the development of plans to expand Child Care Facilities.
Section 15. Policies concerning smoking at the work site, including prohibitions against smoking, may be established by the Commonwealth after meet and discuss with the Union.
--
The committee shall establish its own operating procedures. However, Union representatives on the committee shall be given a reasonable amount of time during working hours to investigate safety and health hazards brought to the committee and to serve on this committee.
Section 3. The Employer agrees to establish within 180 days of the effective date of this Agreement, a state-wide committee at each agency to recommend policies and practices for the purpose of minimizing the risk of injury from needlesticks and non-needle sharps. The committee shall consist of an equal number of representatives appointed by the Employer and the Union. The committee will be co-chaired by the Employer and the Union.
The committee will identify and investigate health and safety hazards and make recommendations on preventative measures. The committee will review current and new equipment, medical treatment, and/or processes to ensure the strongest feasible protections from hazards including, but not limited to engineering controls, personal protective equipment, safety substitutes, and proper education and training.
Upon request from the committee, the Employer shall provide the committee with available information on the number and types of injuries and illnesses resulting from needlesticks, and non-needle sharps.
Section 4. The Employer agrees to inform the local Union when representatives of the Bureau of Occupational and Industrial Safety, Department of Labor and Industry, or other state or federal agencies involved in the establishment or enforcement of laws concerning or affecting the health and safety of employees working in state-owned or leased buildings are on the premises for an inspection. A designated Union delegate or officer located on the premises shall be allowed to accompany such representatives on inspection tours of the work site to point out deficiencies, without loss of pay or leave time. In addition, when the Employer is aware of the presence of representatives of such regulatory agencies who are at the work site for the purpose of safety inspections, the Employer agrees to inform the local Union.
Section 5. The Employer will not assign employees to any work area in any building owned or leased by the Commonwealth while there is a clear and present danger to their safety and such a danger is not an anticipated part of the normal and expected responsibilities and risks of the job in question.
Section 6. The Employer will take appropriate action to protect its employees from injury while at work. Where clear and present hazardous conditions exist at a work site, the Employer shall post appropriate warning signs and take immediate action to abate the hazard.
Section 7. Employees shall be provided with information on all communicable diseases and infestations to which they may have routine work place exposure. Information provided to employees shall include the symptoms of the diseases, modes of transmission, methods of self-protection, proper work place procedures, special precautions and recommendations for immunization where appropriate. The Employer and the Union agree to establish a committee to formulate a policy on how to deal with persons who have a communicable disease or are suspected
71
of having a communicable disease.
Within 48 hours, the Employer shall notify employees of institutions about patients/residents/ inmates with whom they might have contact who have been diagnosed as having or who may reasonably be suspected of having a communicable disease or illness. The Employer will comply with all reasonable and appropriate preventative measures and treatment techniques related to blood borne pathogens and other communicable diseases.
Grievances arising under this section may be submitted directly to the Joint State Committee of the grievance procedure.
Issues related to the prevention and treatment of communicable diseases are appropriate subjects for the agency-level health and safety committees established pursuant to Article 39, Section 2.
Section 8. Upon written request, the local Union shall be provided with copies of statistical reports concerning work-related accidents.
ARTICLE 40 PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION PROGRAM
Section 1. The Employer and the Union recognize the need for a Professional Educational Program that can be made available on an equitable basis to all employees in this unit.
Section 2. a. In this Article, in-service training refers to that training conducted by the Employer on the Employer's premises to assist employees in acquiring the knowledge and skills to perform their duties as professional employees more effectively.
b. Out-service training may include workshops, conferences, correspondence courses and seminars which are conducted by professional, private, or public organizations and which are directly related to the employee's current job duties.
Section 3. In order to facilitate attendance of employees on an out-service training basis, the Employer agrees to extend to each employee within the unit four educational leave days per contract year for attendance at out-service training approved by the Employer in accordance with Section 2b above. In addition, the Employer agrees to reimburse each employee for the amount actually expended not to exceed $875 per contract year for the period July 1, 2003 through June 30, 2007, for out-service training within the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. However, the Employer retains the right to deny requests for out-service training if equivalent programs are offered at a location closer to the employee's worksite. The Employer, in its sole discretion, may send employees to out-service training at a location outside of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. The cost of such training shall be deducted from the allowance provided under this Section. Reimbursement for expenses under this Article shall be in accordance with the Commonwealth's Travel Expenses Regulations (Management Directive 230.10).
72
Employees who attend out-service training where lunch is not provided as a part of the registration fee will be reimbursed for out-of-pocket lunch expenses not to exceed $10.00, including sales tax upon presentation of a receipt.
The amount of money reimbursed for lunch expenses will be charged against aggregate amount of money extended to each employee for out-service training.
Requests to use educational leave must be submitted to the Employer at least 30 calendar days in advance of the date(s) requested, or as soon as practicable, and should indicate the type of training and the dates of attendance. The Employer will respond within ten work days (defined as Monday through Friday, exclusive of holidays) to requests for out-service training. If an employee does not receive a response within the time limits set forth herein, the employee may submit a complaint in accordance with the procedure outlined in Section 9 of this Article.
The Employer will consider such requests in accordance with Section 2b, above, and subject to operational requirements shall not arbitrarily and capriciously deny such requests. Should more requests be received than can be granted, approvals will be made within the seniority unit based on bargaining unit seniority. However, once a request has been approved by the Employer, it will not be rescinded on the basis of a subsequent request by a more senior employee.
Section 4. Full- time employees shall be eligible for tuition reimbursement up to a maximum of $2,000 per contract year for the period July 1, 2003 to June 30, 2007 after successful completion of accredited academic undergraduate or graduate courses which would enable professional employees to maintain or improve skills required in performing their current job duties, or, in the case of employees who are enrolled in a degree program, which are necessary for completion of a degree in nursing or a related health-care field.
Educational leave as outlined in Section 3 above may be used by an employee in hour ly increments (to a total of 30 hours or 32 hours) each year to allow an employee's attendance at a college course for which tuition reimbursement has been approved. The use of educational leave for this purpose is subject to management's ability to maintain efficient operations and provided that an alternate work schedule could not be arranged.
Section 5. Reimbursement under Section 4 above will be made for courses which are approved in advance by the Employer and will be in accordance with procedures established through the Directives Management System and by the Agency involved. The Employer will respond to requests for approval of courses at the local level within five working days and at the State level within ten working days.
Section 6. Reimbursement will be contingent upon successful completion of the course (attainment of a grade of "C" or better). Employees who terminate employment before the end of a course will not be eligible for reimbursement.
Section 7. Part-time employees who are scheduled to work at least 50% time shall be eligible for educational leave and out-service training in accordance with Section 3 above and tuition
73
reimbursement as provided in Section 4 above on a pro rata basis.
Section 8. Employees who use both continuing education and tuition reimbursement benefits in the same contract year shall be subject to a combined use limitation of $2,000 per contract year. However, the amounts used for continuing education shall not exceed the amounts set forth in Section 3 of this Article.
Section 9. An employee who does not receive a response within the time limits set forth above or who is denied benefits under Section 3, Section 4 or Section 8 and believes that such denial is unfair or arbitrary or otherwise contrary to the intent of this Article shall immediately report the incident to the Union. The Union will report the complaint to the appropriate Agency and to the Office of Administration. The Employer, within five working days, will investigate and respond to the complaint and take corrective action if warranted. This procedure will be in lieu of recourse to the grievance procedure. General problems in administration of this Article will be subject to meet and discuss at appropriate agency levels.
Section 10. Requests for out-service training which have been denied for failure to meet the criterion established in Section 2b of this Article shall, at the request of the Union, be reviewed by a joint committee. The committee shall consist of one member to be appointed by the Union, one member to be appointed by the Office of Administration (the Chief Negotiator or designee) and the Agency Labor Relations Coordinator or designee.
The committee will review the subject matter of the training and the reasons for denial to determine whether, in its opinion, the request should have been approved or disapproved. The committee will issue an advisory opinion to the Employer which will be taken into consideration in the review of the instant request or similar future requests.
Section 11. Leave and expense benefits referred to in this Article are a part of what is provided in Management Directive 535.3, Out-Service Training, and are not intended to add to or to limit what is stated in that directive.
Section 12. Should at any time during the life of this Agreement, the State Board of Nursing attach mandatory continuing education requirements to Registered Nurse the Employer agrees to open Section 3 of this Article for discussion.
Section 13. The Employer and the Union recognize the need for in-service educational programs for unit employees and the need for expansion and improvement in many existing programs. Where programs are implemented, improved or expanded, the Employer will meet and discuss with the Union on the quantity, quality and subject matter.
Section 14. Nothing in this Article shall prevent the Employer and the Union at a work site from developing and conducting accredited continuing education programs for employees at the work site, nor shall anything in this Article prevent such employees from voluntarily using reimbursement available to them under Section 3 to fund such program(s).
74
Section 15. The Employer agrees to provide the Union a semi-annual report regarding employees' utilizations of the leave and expense reimbursement benefits provided in this Article.
ARTICLE 41 PRN NURSE
Section 1. In order to enhance the Commonwealth's ability to attract registered nurses who may not be available for full-time or regular part-time employment, the parties have established a separate and distinct classification which is known as "PRN Nurse". When staff level bargaining unit work is assigned from a pool of PRN Nurses on a day to day basis, such nurses shall be, for the period of their employment, bargaining unit employees, and subject to the terms of this Agreement excepting those Articles specified in Section 3 of this Article. It is understood that this classification may be used at all locations throughout the Commonwealth and that no use will be permitted through the reclassification of existing positions.
Section 2. PRN Nurses shall be paid an hourly rate of $26.73. Effective July 1, 2005, the hourly rate will be increased to $27.53. Effective January 1, 2007, the hourly rate will be increased to $28.49. PRN Nurses who work on New Year's Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day shall be paid one and one-half times their regular hourly rate.
No additional economic benefits will accrue to PRN Nurses under the terms of this Agreement or the Personnel Rules of the Commonwealth.
The following Articles of the Collective Bargaining Agreement shall not apply to PRN
Nurses: Article 4; Articles 7 through 16; Article 17, Sections 3, 4 and 9 Articles l9 through 24; Article
25, Sections 1 thru 13; Article 29; Article 31; Article 40; Articles 42, thru 44; and Article 46.
Section 4. PRN Nurses who have at least one year of service since their most recent appointment with the Commonwealth on July 31, 2004; July 31, 2006; January 31, 2007 as appropriate and who transfer from PRN status to full-time status will be eligible to receive a one step service increment effective the first day of the first full pay period in July 2004; July 2006; and January 2007, as appropriate.
Section 5. The Union and the applicable Department shall "meet and discuss" regarding the institutions at which PRN Nurses will be employed. Additionally, prior to the employment of PRN
75
Nurses at any institution, local "meet and discuss" sessions will be held in an attempt to reach an understanding regarding the utilization of PRN Nurses at that particular institution. In reaching such understandings, the parties shall be guided by the following:
a. PRN Nurse pools shall not be used to the disadvantage of regular complement nurses with respect to the frequency of holiday or weekend work, or evening and night shift scheduling.
b. PRN Nurses shall be, on an aggregate basis, scheduled for an equitable number of evening and night shifts, weekends and holidays on a proportionate basis to the number of such shifts and days assigned to regular complement nurses.
c. An individual PRN Nurse shall not be scheduled for more than six shifts in a pay period except by mutual agreement of the Employer and the Union.
d. All newly hired PRN Nurses will be given an adequate orientation to the institution during their first two weeks of employment.
e. The use of non-standard schedules at an institution as provided for in Article 4, Section l2 of this Agreement will be considered in conjunction with the use of PRN Nurses. Section 6. Disputes arising from the terms of the local understanding, which cannot be resolved locally, will be referred to the departmental level for discussion and resolution with the Union.
ARTICLE 42 SUCCESSORS In the event the Employer sells, divests, leases, transfers or assigns any of its facilities or any part thereof to other political subdivisions, or to public or private corporations or persons, and such sale, divestiture, lease, transfer or assignment would result in the layoff, furlough or termination of employees covered by this bargaining agreement, the Employer shall attempt in good faith to arrange for the placement of such employees with the new Employer. The Employer shall notify the Union in writing at least 30 days in advance of any such sale, divestiture, lease, transfer or assignment. For informational purposes, the Employer shall notify the new Employer of the existence of this Agreement, and shall notify the new Employer that the Union is the certified bargaining representative of employees covered by this Agreement.
76
ARTICLE 43 PRESERVATION OF BARGAINING UNIT WORK
Section 1. The provisions of Sections 1 through 6 of this Article shall apply only to bargaining unit work performed on July 1, 1998, by employees represented by the Union in the particular agency affected.
Section 2a. Except as provided in Section 7, the Employer shall not contract/assign bargaining unit work included in the scope of Section 1 to independent contractors, consultants or other non-bargaining unit state employees where (1) such contract/assignment would result in the layoff or downgrading of an employee or (2) such contract/assignment would prevent the return to work of an available, competent employee or (3) the duration of the work to be performed under the contract/assignment is expected to be more than 12 consecutive months or (4) the work is performed on an annually recurring basis; except for the reasons set forth in subsection b.
b. The Employer may contract/assign bargaining unit work described in subsection a for any of the following reasons: (1) legitimate operational reasons resulting in reasonable cost savings or improved delivery of service, (2) legitimate operational reasons resulting from technological changes, (3) or where there are insufficient numbers of available, competent employees on layoff on the applicable recall list within the agency to perform the required work.
Section 3a. Except as provided in Section 7, the Employer shall not contract/assign bargaining unit work included within the scope of Section 1 which becomes available as a result of a retirement, resignation, termination, promotion, demotion or reassignment of an employee to independent contractors, consultants or other non-bargaining unit state employees except for the reasons set forth in subsection b.
Section 4. The Employer shall provide the Union with as much advanced notice as possible of a proposed contract/assignment of bargaining unit work included within the scope of Section 1 which meets the conditions set forth in Sections 2a or 3a.
Section 5. At each site where a proposed contract/assignment of bargaining unit work is to occur and provided the work is included within the scope of Section 1 and meets the conditions set forth in Sections 2a and 3a local labor/management committees shall meet and discuss over the reasons for the contract/assignment. At this meeting the Employer shall provide to the Union all information it has to support a claim (a) of reasonable cost saving or improved service (b) of legitimate operational reasons resulting from technological changes, (c) that there are insufficient numbers of available, competent employees on layoff on the applicable recall list within the agency
77
to perform the required work, or (d) that the duration of the contract/assignment is not expected to exceed 12 consecutive months duration. The Union shall have the opportunity to provide alternative methods to attaining the Employer's desired result. In the event that the parties at the local level are unable to resolve the issue, the contract or the assignment made may be implemented and the matter shall be referred to a committee comprised of the Union, the Agency and the Office of Administration. Should the parties be unable to resolve the issue, the Union shall notify the Office of Administration in writing of its intent to submit the matter to the grievance procedure.
Section 6. The Employer agrees to meet and discuss regarding any contract/assignment involving work of the type traditionally performed by employees covered by the bargaining unit, but excluded by Section 1 of this Article, upon request of the Union and presentation by the Union of an alternative which may result in reasonable cost savings or improved delivery of service.
Section 7. Non-District 1199P, SEIU represented state employees may perform bargaining unit work for the purpose of instruction, illustration, lending an occasional hand or in emergency situations to carry out the functions and programs of the Employer or maintain the Employer's standard of service.
Section 8. The Employer and the Union acknowledge this Article represents the results of negotiations conducted under and in accordance with the Public Employe Relations Act and constitutes the full and complete understanding regarding the issues of contracting out and transfer of bargaining unit work.
ARTICLE 44 FAMILY CARE LEAVE
Section 1. After completing one year of service, permanent employees shall be granted, upon written request, up to 12 weeks of leave without pay in a calendar year for the purpose of attending to the medical needs of the employee's spouse, domestic partner, parent, son or daughter or other person qualifying as a dependent or the son or daughter of the employee's domestic partner born during the domestic partnership. The one year of service will include all periods of Commonwealth service provided the employee has worked at least 1250 hours within the last twelve months.
Leave for this purpose may be taken one day at a time if necessary. Leave shall be approved for less than one day at a time when medically necessary due to a serious health condition as defined in the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993.
The request, which shall be submitted at least two weeks in advance if circumstances permit, must include documentation supporting the need for Family Care Leave.
Section 2. State-paid coverage for life insurance and state payments toward coverage for health benefits as provided in Articles 20 and 21 will continue for the period of time the employee is on family care leave under Section 1 of this Article.
78
Section 3. extended.
It is understood that the twelve week entitlement under Section 1 above may not be
Section 4. Employees will not be required to use accumulated annual and/or personal leave prior to taking family care leave without pay.
Section 5. An employee shall have the right to return to the same position in the same classification held before going on Family Care Leave, or to an equivalent position with regard to pay and skill.
Section 6. For the purpose of this Article, parent shall be defined as the biological parent of the employee or an individual who stood in loco parentis to an employee when the employee was a son or daughter.
For the purpose of this Article, son or daughter shall be defined as a the employee's biological, adopted, or foster child, a step-child, a legal ward, or a child of a person standing in loco parentis or a biological or adopted child of the employee's domestic partner who is
(a) under 18 years of age; or (b) 18 years of age or older and incapable of self-care because of a mental or
physical disability.
Section 7. It is understood by both parties that the provisions of this Article are consistent with the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, 29 USC Section 2601 et seq and that leave granted in accordance with this Article shall be designated as leave under the provisions of the Act, where applicable .
Section 8. For the purpose of this Article, the calendar year shall be defined as beginning with the employee's first full pay period commencing on or after January 1 and continuing through the end of the employee's pay period that includes December 31.
Section 9. For the purpose of this Article, domestic partner shall be defined as a same sex domestic partner who meets the eligibility criteria established by the Commonwealth.
ARTICLE 45 POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEE DEDUCTIONS
Section 1. The Employer agrees to deduct from the paycheck of members covered by this Agreement voluntary contributions to the Union's Political Action Committee. The Employer shall make such deductions only in accordance with the written authorization of respective members which shall specify the amount, frequency and duration of the deductions.
79
Section 2. The Employer shall transmit the monies deducted in accordance with this Article to the Union's Political Action Committee in accordance with the procedures agreed to by the Employer and the Union.
Section 3. The Union shall reimburse the Employer for the Employer's actual cost for the expenses incurred in administering this Article.
Section 4. The Union shall indemnify and hold the Commonwealth harmless against any and all claims, suits, orders, or judgments brought or issued against the Employer as a result of the action taken or not taken by the Employer under the provisions of this Article.
ARTICLE 46 LEAVE DONATION PROGRAM
Section 1. Effective January 1, 2004, the Commonwealth will implement and administer a Leave Donation Program. Permanent employees may donate annual and personal leave to a designated permanent employee in the employee's agency who has used all accrued and anticipated paid leave for the current leave calendar year. The leave is to be used for the recipient's own catastrophic injury or illness or for the catastrophic injury or illness of a family member. The leave also may be used as bereavement leave if the employee's family member dies and the employee has no accrued or anticipated sick leave available, subject to the limitations in Article 11, Section 6.
Section 2. Recipients
a. Recipients must be permanent employees in bargaining units that have agreed to participate in this program.
b. Family member is defined as a husband, wife, domestic partner, child, stepchild, or parent of the employee or any other person qualifying as a dependent under IRS eligibility criteria or the child of the employee's domestic partner.
c. A catastrophic illness or injury that poses a direct threat to life or to the vital function of major bodily systems or organs, and would cause the employee to take leave without pay or terminate employment, must be documented on a Family and Medical Leave Act Serious Health Condition Certification form. Donated leave may not be used for work-related injuries or illnesses, minor illnesses, injuries, or impairments, sporadic, short-term recurrences of chronic, non-life threatening conditions, short-term absences due to contagious diseases, or short-term recurring medical or therapeutic treatments, except for conditions such as those listed above.
d. The absence due to the catastrophic illness or injury of the employee or a family member must be for more than 20 workdays in the current leave calendar year. The 20-workday absence may be accumulated on an intermittent basis if properly documented as related
80
--
Section 5. - Default
In the event either party in a dispute fails to appear before the Joint State Committee, or a panel thereof, without an authorized postponement, the Joint State Committee shall render a default decision in favor of the appearing party. If either party in a case which is scheduled to be heard at a particular meeting fails to appear at the time the case is called, that case will be placed at the end of the Docket and will be called again after all of the cases preceding it have been heard. At that time when the case is called for the second time, if the party again fails to appear, the Committee shall render a default decision in favor of the appearing party. However, in any such case, the Co-Chairperson of the group whose representative fails to appear may appoint a member of the Committee, or an alternate, to present the case. Only with the express consent of both CoChairpersons, shall the State Committee be required to meet on the day following the day of a scheduled meeting because of the failure of a party to appear on the date for which the hearing was scheduled.
RULE 4 OPERATION OF JOINT PENNSYLVANIA STATE COMMITTEE
Section 1. - Rules
The operation of the Joint State Committee shall be in accordance with these Rules of Procedure and such other rules as may from time to time be adopted by the Joint State Committee. Such other rules shall be established by a majority vote of the Joint State Committee provided; however, both the Union and the Commonwealth members of the Committee have equal voting power. Whenever an addition or amendment to these Rules of Procedure, or other rules duly adopted, is proposed, it shall be presented in writing to the Joint State Committee at a regularly scheduled meeting of the Committee and voted upon at the following meeting.
Section 2. - Order of Cases
Docketed discharge cases will be heard during the time period scheduled for the Joint State Committee for which it has been docketed. All other cases will be heard by the Joint State Committee in the order in which the Chairpersons mutually agree.
Section 3. - Hearings
In the hearing of a case, either party may present any evidence bearing on the facts of the particular case, and may present testimony of witnesses either in person or by written witness statements. However, these statements must contain the following statement:
"THE FOLLOWING STATEMENT IS BEING GIVEN BY ME FREELY AND WITHOUT COERCION FOR OFFICIAL COMMONWEALTH BUSINESS AND WILL BE CONSIDERED FOR ALL PURPOSES, INCLUDING ACTIONS UNDER THE STATUTES OF THIS COMMONWEALTH, JUST AS THOUGH IT HAD BEEN SWORN OR AFFIRMED BEFORE A COURT OF LAW OR FORMAL ARBITRATION PANEL."
101
All evidence to be presented must be made known to the other party within a reasonable time prior to the hearing. HOWEVER, NO LATER THAN FORTY-EIGHT (48) HOURS PRIOR TO THE SCHEDULED MEETING OF THE JOINT STATE COMMITTEE. THE FOLLOWING ARE THE ONLY PERMISSIBLE EXCEPTIONS: BARGAINING HISTORY, PRECEDENT SETTING ARBITRATION AWARDS, PRECEDENT SETTING SETTLEMENTS, COURT DECISIONS, AND LABOR BOARD DECISIONS. Failure to comply with this rule by either party, shall constitute grounds for the Committee to refuse to consider the evidence in question if an objection to its introduction is raised. During the hearing, only panel members, alternate members of the Joint State Committee, the parties presenting the case, and those directly involved in the specific case being heard, shall be allowed to sit in the immediate area where the hearing is being conducted. Other members of the Joint State Committee, except for the designated panel hearing the case, shall not participate in the presentation, the discussion, or the questioning.
In discharge, involuntary demotion, suspension and reprimand cases, the Commonwealth must present its evidence first; in all other cases, the Union will present its evidence first. Each party shall declare, prior to the presentation of its case, whether there will be a co-presenter on the respective case. The number of co-presenters shall be limited to two (2) individuals, and a copresenter shall only supplement the presentation of the case. Both sides will have an opportunity to summarize and rebut, however, when co-presenters are used, only one (1) of the co-presenters may respond during the Summation and Rebuttal portion of the presentation. After each party has presented its case and its official rebuttal testimony, the panel members will be free to ask questions of the parties. After such questioning, the panel of the Joint State Committee will retire to executive session and will vote, and thereby render its decision. The voting will be conducted by secret ballot if requested by any member of the committee, otherwise, voting by a show of hands will be deemed to be sufficient. When the panel goes into executive session in order to decide the case, all others must retire from the room. After a decision has been reached by a majority vote of the panel, the decision shall be reduced to writing and provided to the parties in a manner agreed upon by the Joint State Committee.
Section 4. - Recess
A recess may be requested by either party during the hearing of a case. However, if such request is granted by the Acting Chairperson, it shall not exceed one hour. The Acting Chairperson may also call for recess at any time, but such recess not to exceed one hour in duration.
Section 5. - Minutes
The Commonwealth co-chair shall prepare written minutes of each committee meeting, briefly outlining the facts and the decision reached by the Committee in each case heard. Copies of all such minutes and decisions shall be provided to the Union. The Office of Administration will provide copies of these documents to all Commonwealth Agencies (Division of Labor Relations) participating in the AGP. Minutes for the Joint State Committee will be approved at the next meeting of the Committee and will form the official record of the Committee action.
102
Section 6. Time and Place The JPSC shall meet on a quarterly basis, unless otherwise mutually agreed.
103
APPENDIX F DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING PROGRAM 1. POLICY
a. Employees of the Department of Corrections are required to participate in the Drug and Alcohol Testing Program, as outlined below.
b. The following controlled substance and alcohol testing is required:
1) Reasonable Suspicion 2) Return-to-duty 3) Follow-up
c. The split sample collection method will be used for urine samples for purposes of testing for controlled substances. The breath alcohol testing method administered by a trained Breath Alcohol Technician (BAT) using an Evidential Breath Testing device (EBT), will be used for the alcohol testing.
d. Prohibitions for controlled substances.
No employee shall:
1) Perform work when using or being under the influence of any controlled substance, except under instruction of a physician who has advised the employee that the substance does not adversely affect the employee's ability to safely perform the employee's job duties.
2) Perform work if the employee tests positive for controlled substances.
3) Refuse to submit to a controlled substance test.
e. Prohibitions for alcohol
1) Perform work while being under the influence of alcohol as defined by g. and h. below.
2) Perform work while possessing or using alcohol.
104
3) Refuse to submit to an alcohol test
f. No supervisor/manager shall:
1) Permit an employee who refuses to submit to controlled substance and/or alcohol tests to perform or continue to perform job functions.
2) Permit an employee to perform or continue to perform work if the Employer has actual knowledge that an employee has tested positive for alcohol and/or controlled substances.
g. Consequences to employees who test 0.02% or greater but less than 0.04% for alcohol (CDL only)
1) Employees will not be permitted to perform work for at least 24 hours.
2) Employees shall be advised of the availability of the State Employees Assistance Program.
3) The employee shall be subject to unannounced follow-up alcohol testing. The number and frequency will consist of at least six tests in the first 12 months following the date of the employee's return to duty.
4) Employees who have a verified positive test result for alcohol during the 12 months following the date of the employee's return to duty shall be referred to SEAP and treated under h. below.
5) Employees who have a verified positive test result for alcohol during the initial hire, 6 or 12 month probationary period shall be terminated.
h. Consequences to employees who test positive for controlled substances or .04% or greater for alcohol or employees who test positive under the provisions of g. (4) above.
1) Employees shall not be permitted to perform work and shall be evaluated by a State Employees Assistance Program substance abuse professional who shall determine what assistance the employee needs in resolving problems associated with the use of controlled substances and/or alcohol.
2) If the employee is determined to require treatment, the substance abuse professional will evaluate the employee's participation in the program and determine whether or not the employee has followed the prescribed rehabilitation program.
105
--
112
every reasonable effort to contact the employee confidentially and afford the employee the opportunity to discuss the test result. If after making all reasonable efforts and documenting them, the MRO is unable to reach the employee directly, the MRO shall contact a designated management official who shall direct the employee to contact the MRO as soon as possible (within 24 hours).
3) As soon as the agency is notified of a verified positive test result, the agency contact person must ensure that the employee is removed immediately from the performance of work.
g. Maintenance of Records.
1) The Contractor will be responsible for maintaining all records resulting from the administration of drug and alcohol tests under this program. These records will be maintained as outlined in the contract with DOC and will be consistent with the federal requirements.
2) The MRO will notify the employee, in writing, of both positive and negative drug and/or alcohol test results, and the specific controlled substances for which the test was verified positive.
3) With the employee's written consent, the Contractor will provide any of the testing information to another Employer.
4) The Department of Corrections is to establish internal confidential procedures to ensure that testing notifications, test results, and any other data pertaining to the drug and alcohol testing of employee are maintained in a locked file and are released only to authorized personnel as determined by the agency Coordinator.
h. Training.
1) The Contractor will provide drug and alcohol training to supervisors.
2) The Contractor or Agency Personnel Office will notify Institution/Boot Camp contact persons where and when training will be conducted. This training is mandatory and it is the institution's responsibility to ensure that employees and supervisors receive this training. If an employee/supervisor is unable to participate in the scheduled training, the Institution/Boot Camp Coordinator should be notified and the Coordinator should make alternate arrangements through the employee to receive the training as soon as possible.
3) No supervisor should be involved in a reasonable suspicion determination unless the supervisor has received the required training.
113
4) Once the initial training is provided, new supervisors/managers of employees are to be provided the required training from the Contractor or Agency Personnel Office within 60 days of becoming a supervisor/manager of these employees. Agency Coordinators shall contact the Contractor within 10 days of the employee becoming a supervisor and provide the names and locations of the supervisors/managers in need of training.
5) New employees will be provided educational material during their orientation regarding the policies and requirements of the drug and alcohol testing program. Prior to any testing, the employee will be provided with additional information. The employee will be required to sign receipt of any information and forms that are provided.
114
APPENDIX G NURSE CERTIFICATIONS
--
2. The employee will be given notice of the assessment and when signing to denote the receipt, will indicate on the assessment document in writing a request for Bureau of Hospital Operations review.
3. The employee and /or the union will then, upon request, be afforded access to information upon which the assessment is based.
4. Within 10 days of the receipt of the information, the employee and/or the union can request in writing to the Director of the Bureau of Hospital Operations or designee a review of the information on which the assessment to reassign the employee was made. The union and/or the employee shall state the reason they believe the reassignment was improper and can attach any documentation they have to support their claim.
5. The employee and/or the union may request a meeting to discuss the issue with the Director of the Bureau of Hospital Operations or designee.
6. The Director of the Bureau of Hospital Operations/designee will then review the information/documentation (verbal as well as written) submitted by both the management and the employee/union and will advise the parties of a determination.
7. The determination will be final and binding and is not grievable through the grievance and arbitration procedure set forth in the collective bargaining agreement.
If you are in agreement with this procedure, please sign the enclosed copy and return it to the Bureau of Labor Relations.
Sincerely,
Nancy Deri Deputy Secretary for Human
anagement
Thomas DeBruin
5/28/04
Date
copy: Secretary Robert S. Barnett Donald Adams Carol Scott HR Directors which employ 1199p-represented employees LRC which employ 1199p-represented employees

Binary file (standard input) matches
