=== HEALTHCARE EXTRACTION: CBA_03 ===
Source: C:/Users/zachary.parolin/INETInequality Dropbox/INET Inequality Team/Projects/LLMs & Inequality/1_CBAs/Cornell Archive/Cornell-DoL/7929ABBYY.pdf
Total document lines: 8234
Extracted healthcare lines: 840
===========================================

Contract Database Metadata Elements (for a glossary of the elements see http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/2/)

Title: Kaiser Foundation Hospitals, the Permanente Medical Group, Inc., Kaiser Foundation Health Plan and Service Employees International Union (SEIU), Health Care Workers Union, AFL-CIO, Local 250 (2000)
K#: 7929
Employer Name: Kaiser Foundation Hospitals, the Permanente Medical Group, Inc., Kaiser Foundation Health Plan
Location: CA Northern
Union: Service Employees International Union (SEIU), Health Care Workers Union, AFL-CIO
Local: 250
SIC: 8062
NAICS: 62211
Sector: P
Number of Workers: 14000
Effective Date: 10/01/00
Expiration Date: 09/30/05
Number of Pages: 188
Other Years Available: Y
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School, http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
K# 7929
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into as of the 1st day of October 2000 by and between the KAISER FOUNDATION HOSPITALS, THE PERMANENTE MEDICAL GROUP, INC., and KAISER FOUNDATION HEALTH PLAN, (hereinafter referred to as the "Employer") and the SEIU, Local 250, HEALTH CARE WORKERS* UNION, affiliated with the AFL-CIO (hereinafter referred to as the "Union").
WITNESSETH:
That the parties hereto have agreed as follows:
ARTICLE1- PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT
1.
It is the intent and purpose of the parties hereto to set forth herein the basic
agreement covering the rates of pay, hours of work and conditions of
employment between the parties.
ARTICLE II - SCOPE OF AGREEMENT
Section 1 - Jurisdiction of Agreement
2.
This Master Agreement covers the following:
3.
All of the Employer's employees presently represented by the Union.
4.
Employees in existing facilities not presently represented by any Union
in the event a majority of such employees in any appropriate bargaining
unit in any individual facility express a desire to be represented by the
Union; provided, however that any such employees who at the time do
not desire to become members of the Union shall be exempted from
the provisions of Article III, Section 2 hereof.
--
Section 3 - Hiring
17. When vacancies occur in positions subject to this Agreement, the Employer shall notify the Union and shall afford it an opportunity to send applicants for the position. The Employer will notify the Union of any position openings prior to other recruitment efforts being made in an attempt to fill the specific position with outside applicants. The Employer may likewise consider other applicants for the position who may or may not be members of the Union. The Employer may employ the person who, in its judgment, will make the best employee. The Employer shall be the sole judge of the fitness of any applicant.
Section 4 - Notification of New Employees
18. At the time a new employee is hired who will be subject to this Agreement, the Employer shall deliver to the employee a written notice stating that the Employer recognizes the Union as the collective bargaining agent for the employees covered by the Agreement and quoting or paraphrasing the provisions of Article ill of this Agreement. At the time of hire, each new employee shall be given a copy of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. The cost of issuing such-agreements shall be shared equally by the Employer and the Union. Not later than the tenth (10th) of the following month the Employer shall supply the Union with the names, addresses and classifications of work of new employees and the names of employees terminated. The Employer will, at the time of hire, distribute packets of information to new hires which have been prepared by the Union and furnished to the Personnel office.
Section 5 - Checkoff
19. The Employer shall deduct from each employee's wages the amount of Union dues and initiation fees, as specified by the Union, of all employees covered by this Agreement who have voluntarily provided the Employer with a written assignment authorizing such deductions. Once signed, the authorization cannot be canceled for a period of one (1) year from the date appearing on such written assignment or within a fifteen (15) day period prior to the termination date of the current Collective Bargaining Agreement between the Employer and the Union, whichever occurs sooner.
Section 6 - Employer Indemnification
20. The Union shall indemnify the Employer and hold it harmless against any and all suits, claims, demands and liabilities that shall arise out of or by reason of any action that shall be taken by the Employer for the purpose of complying with the foregoing provisions of this Article, or in reliance on any list or certificate which shall have been furnished to the Employer under any of such provisions. Section 7 - Volunteers
4
21. The volunteer's role in the Medical Centers is to provide services to patients that may not otherwise be offered. Volunteers will not be assigned to replace or be used in lieu of Union personnel in the performance of the typical duties of their classification.
ARTICLE IV - UNION AND MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY
Section 1 - Management Rights
22. The Union recognizes that the Employer has the duty and the right to manage the Hospital and clinics and to direct the working forces. This includes the right to hire, transfer, promote, demote, layoff, discipline and discharge employees, subject to the terms of this Agreement and the grievance procedure.
Section 2 - Agreed Objectives
23. The Union agrees with the objectives of achieving the highest level of employee performance and production consistent with safety, good health and sustained effort, and the Union and Employer will use their best efforts to effectuate this objective.
24. The Union and the Employer agree that all Kaiser Permanente employees, physicians, managers, field representatives, human resource representatives and labor relation representatives will treat each other, regardless of position or profession, with dignity, respect, courtesy and trust. The foregoing principles shall also apply in providing service to patients and visitors. By creating an environment of mutual trust and respect, recognizing each person's expertise, knowledge and value, and providing training and education to expand those capabilities, we can achieve our common goals of achieving organizational success and creating a challenging work environment. This agreement, in conjunction with the National Agreement, jointly initiates a wide array of activities designed to increase employee skills training, growth and development, and learning opportunities.
Section 3 - Working Conditions
25. The Employer shall provide reasonable and safe working conditions consistent with accepted standards for the nature of the process and work performed. Work assignments shall be made only if they are in accordance with this principle. Work conditions which appear to be inconsistent with this principle may be brought to the attention of the area supervisor by any employee; and if the supervisor is unable to resolve the problem, it may be submitted for
5
investigation by the facility safety committee. Thirty (30) days following ratification of this Agreement the Union shall designate an employee representative to be assigned to the Facilities Safety Committee. Such attendance on safety committees shall not result in loss of pay to employees.
ARTICLE V - DISCRIMINATION
Section 1 - Scope
26. No employee or applicant for employment covered by this Agreement shall be discriminated against because of membership in the Union or activities on behalf of the Union, and the Union agrees that employees covered hereby shall be admitted to membership without discrimination. Neither'the Employer nor the Union shall discriminate for or against any employee or applicant for employment .covered by this Agreement on account of race, color, religion, -national origin age, =sex or political affiliation. It.is the continuing.policy of:the Employer and the Union that the provisions of this Agreement shaii be applied to all employees without regard to race, color, religious creed, national origin, age, sex, sexual orientation,'political affiliation, marital status, handicapped, medical condition, disabled veteran, and veterans of the Vietnam era as defined by Federal and State laws.
Section 2 - Wage Equality
27. There shall be no distinction between the wages paid to men and the wages paid to .women for the performance of comparable quality and quantity of work on the same or similar jobs.
ARTICLE VI -SENIORITY
Section 1 - Definition of Bargaining Unit Seniority
28. Bargaining unit seniority for all employees shall be defined as the employee's most recent date of hire into a bargaining unit position. Bargaining unit seniority date shall not be adjusted for leaves of absence as specified in Article XVI.
Section 2 - Seniority Lists
6
29. Seniority lists of employees will be maintained within the department and shall be provided to the Union Representative, his/her designee or concerned employees upon request.
Section 3 - Order of Application
30. Seniority shall be applied in the following order except for filling vacant positions, as described in Article VI, Section 4:
1. All Regular employees in department. 2. All eligible Short-Hour employees in department. 3. All Regular employees in facility. 4. All eligible Short-Hour employees in facility. 5. All Regular employees in bargaining unit. 6. All eligible Short-Hour employees in bargaining unit. 7. All Casual, ineligible Short-Hour, Temporary employees in department. 8. All Casual, ineligible Short-Hour, Temporary employees in facility. 9. All Casual, ineligible Short-Hour, Temporary employees in bargaining unit.
31. All Short-Hour Employees must work three hundred (300) hours in Short-Hour status to qualify as an eligible Short-Hour employee regardless of prior status, except those who have already been classified as an eligible Short-Hour employee at any time in the past.
Section 4 - Work Force Adjustments and Transition
32. To address restructuring efforts and issues of work force adjustments and transitions, the parties agree to the following:
The Employer will provide the employee and the Union with sixty-(60) days written notice of decisions to permanently layoff Regular and Short-Hour employees. A permanent layoff is defined as a reduction in force of more than 30 days. Prior to implementation of such layoff, the Employer will meet with the Union to identify positions to be eliminated, the seniority of affected employees, the present work schedule, the proposed work schedule, and the date(s) of layoff. Additionally, the parties will meet and confer to discuss alternatives to layoffs that will minimize the impact on employees. Such discussions may include consideration of hiring freezes, early retirement for eligible retirees, leaves of absence, reduction of hours, transfers to other departments or facilities, reduction in utilization of contractual and temporary employees or any other alternative(s) that meet management established operational objectives prior to the designated date(s) of layoff. Any agreement
or alternatives to layoffs prior to the designated date(s) of layoff, if any, shall be in writing and enforceable under the terms of this Agreement. Additionally, when layoffs are necessary, the Employer agrees to work with Local 250
7
representatives to obtain available federal and state training and development funding to assist laid off workers in securing employment outside the Kaiser Permanente Medical Care Program.
If it is necessary to reduce force, the principle of bargaining unit seniority in each department and craft shall govern provided merit and ability are adequate. Employees who are transferred to a lower rated job as a result of a reduction in force shall receive the step rate which is equal to or next below his/her former rate (See Transition Assistance Program package for special instructions on red circling employee wages). In addition, he/she shall receive credit for time spent in his/her assigned step rate of his/her former classification in determining his/her eligibility date for future step rate increases in his/her new classification unless the employee was receiving the -maximum step rate of his/her classification at the time of transfer. Regular and eligible Short-Hour employees who are laid off shall be given preference region-wide for posted vacancies at department, facility .and. bargaining.unit .levels as follows:
1. All Regular employees in the department. 2. All Regular laid off employees in the region. 3. All eligible Short-Hour employees in the department. 4. All laid off eligible Short-Hour employees in the region. 5. All Regular employees in facility. 6. All eligible Short-Hour employees in facility. 7. All Regular employees in bargaining unit. 8. All eligible Short-Hour employees in bargaining unit. 9. All casual, ineligible Short-Hour, temporary employees in department. 10. All casual, ineligible Short-Hour temporary employees in facility. 11. All casual, ineligible Short-Hour temporary employees in bargaining unit.
The provisions of Article VI, Section 8 - Job Posting, shall be applicable for the purpose of administering this paragraph.
To be eligible to bid for vacant positions, laid off employees must submit a transfer request for vacancies and meet the posted qualifications of the position, or meet the qualifications within the training period set forth in Paragraph 35. Such transfer requests shall be valid until the employee meets the conditions set forth in A, B, C, and D below. Regular or Short-Hour employee who has been laid off from a department or whose status has been changed due to a reduction in force for lack of work, shall retain bidding rights of the status and amount of seniority in department, facility and bargaining unit respectively which the employee has prior to the layoff for:
A. Twelve (12) months, or;
B. Until the employee has been placed in a permanent position on the same status within one position grade of the position held prior to the layoff in another department, or; (Note: Work Force Adjustment Committee referenced in the Side Letter of Agreement will determine the number of opportunities an employee shall have to reject offers of employment.)
C. Until the employee accepts a position for which training is provided under the terms of this Article, or;
D. Until the employee has refused recall to a position of the same status within one position grade of that held prior to layoff in their previous department, whichever occurs first.
In recalling from layoff, the last laid off person remaining on the layoff status in each department and craft shall be the first recalled for available work to include casual and temporary assignments. Except as provided above, all the other provisions in the application of seniority and promotion shall apply.
Employees who have received notice of layoff, have asserted their "laid off' seniority rights, and applied for a vacant position at the facility or bargaining unit level as provided for in Paragraph 32 above, shall be given on-the-job training necessary to meet the minimum qualifications of the posted position. Such on-the-job training shall be determined by the Employer and shall not be in excess of 160 hours.
Regular and Short-Hour employees who have received written notice of layoff and have asserted their "laid off" seniority rights for a position for which the training period will not allow them to meet the minimum qualifications of the posted position, or who after the maximum training period fail to meet the minimum qualifications of the posted position, or who are within a targeted group and have volunteered to be laid off shall be eligible for the Transition Assistance Program as set forth in the side Letter of Agreement dated February 24, 1994. The Transition Assistance Agreement as referenced in this Article shall not extend beyond the term of this Agreement. Refer to the Labor-Management Partnership Agreement on Employment and Income Security.
Employees who apply for a lead position in accordance with this Article shall be subject to the special seniority provisions set forth in Article VI - Seniority; Section 7 - Promotions, Transfers and Seniority.
Section 5 - Temporary Reductions in Work Schedules
All Regular employees who are placed on layoff status for a period of one (1) to two (2) weeks for reasons within the control of the Employer will receive one
9
(1) week's notice or one (1) week's pay therefor. Regular employees who are placed on layoff status for more than two (2) weeks, for reasons within the control of the Employer, but for thirty (30) days or less will receive two (2) weeks' notice or two (2) weeks' pay therefor. Situations considered as being outside the control of the Employer shall include work stoppages, fires, and natural disasters.
Section 6 - Mechanization
When an employee's particular job is eliminated because of mechanization, the following steps shall be taken by the Employer. The term "mechanization" is defined as replacement of essential elements of an employee's particular job by a machine or other technological improvement, including but not limited tointroduction of automated processes and work-saving devices.
The employee, if he/she has at least five (5) years of continuous service.as a Regulanemplqyee, shall be given three (3) months prior notice .that-his/her job is being eiiminated. The employee, if he/she has less than five (5) years but more than one (1) year of continuous service as a Regular employee shall be given <four (4) weeks prior notice that his/her job is being eliminated. The employee, if he/she has less than one (1) year of continuous service as a Regular employee, shall be given two (2) weeks prior notice that his/her job is .being eliminated. The applicable period of notice shall be termed the "notification period."
The employee with at least five (5) years of continuous service as a Regular employee shall be offered another job during the notification period, if an available job opening exists for which he/she can reasonably be expected to qualify within a training and trial period not to exceed sixty (60) days, either at the same facility or at another facility within reasonable proximity. The Employer is not obligated to offer another job to an employee with less than five (5) years of continuous service as a Regular employee, but will make reasonable effort to accomplish the force reduction through attrition and transfer regardless of length of service.
If an available job opening exists during the notification period and it is offered to and accepted by the employee, the rate of pay for the job, as set forth in the Wage Rates hereto attached, shall become effective at the end of the notification period.
If an available job opening does not exist by the end of the notification period, the employee shall receive severance pay on the following basis for full years of continuous service as a Regular employee:
Years of Service 1-2
Days of Pay 2
10
2-3
3-5
5-7
--
61. It is understood that to guarantee employees every third (3rd) weekend off in a department it may be necessary to rotate days off for all full-time employees in that department and that there can be no restrictions on split days off in such department. The Employer may utilize back-to-back workweeks and the eighty (80) hour option under the Fair Labor Standards Act for purposes of computing overtime. An employee required to work more than seven (7) consecutive days without a day off shall be compensated thereafter at time and one-half (1-1/2) the employee's basic straight-time hourly rate for each day worked or portion thereof until granted a day off. The Employer shall not be required to pay time and one-half (1-1/2) for the sixth (6th) day nor double time for the seventh (7th) day. This provision may be waived on the request of an individual employee and with the agreement of the Employer. All employees in a department which selects the guaranteed weekend off provision will be covered by the provisions of this paragraph.
62. Once each year (month to be determined by the facility) each affected department, by shift, subject to the requirement of efficient operations, shall vote, if the employees so request, and by majority vote of all employees on the shift decide whether the provisions of Paragraph 60 subject to the conditions of Paragraph 61 shall apply for the following twelve (12) months. The vote will be held on each shift.
63. Voting shall be conducted by a Joint Committee composed of three (3) persons appointed by the Employer and three (3) selected by the Union. The departmental units for the purpose of voting shall be determined by the Joint Committee in each hospital.
64. Disputes under this Section with the exception of Paragraphs 56, 57, and 58 shall be subject to mediation through the California State Conciliation Service, but shall not be subject to the complaints and grievance procedure and arbitration provisions of this Agreement.
Section 4 - Float Differential
65. It is the intention of the Employer to schedule employees on regular assignments. If an employee floats from one assignment to another, as described below, a premium of ten cents ($.10) per hour shall be paid for work performed in the area to which he/she is reassigned, if the assignment exceeds one (1) hour.
66. The premium shall apply to:
15
A. Employees assigned to a permanent work area who commence a shift and are then reassigned to another "service" or "multiple service" area as traditionally identified at the location involved and its environs;
B. Employees whose primary jobs are as unassigned relief employees;
C. Clinic employees whose primary jobs are to relieve other personnel within a shift on a pre-arranged basis;
D. Employees temporarily reassigned from one facility and its environs to another.
Casual and Temporary employees shall qualify for the premium only if they 'satisfy the "conditions specified in (A) above. Professionahand Technical employees shall qualify for the premium only if they satisfy the condition specified in (D) above.
The premium shall not apply to:
A. -Employees who normally move through the facility or "function "in multiple services or departments during the usual performance of their duties (e.g., those in the Housekeeping, Dietary, Storeroom and Chartroom Departments, Medical Secretaries and Transcriptionists, etc.);
B. Employees who receive additional pay based on relief work in a higher classification;
C. Employees whose reassignment becomes permanent;
D. Employees who are transferred from any area to another for training purposes;
E. Employees who relieve other employees in a lower classification and whose rate is not reduced during the time worked on a relief basis.
Solely for this paragraph the parties agree that if other situations arise pertaining to float assignments it is the obligation of the Union to cite such situations to the Employer and the parties shall resolve the matter consistent with the above principles without resorting to the grievance procedure. Any additional float differentials agreed to by the parties to be paid per this paragraph shall become effective at the beginning of the first payroll period following receipt of notification by the Union that a new situation exists which is consistent with the principles herein stated which should entitle an employee to float differential pay.
In the application of this Section, Maternity Service shall include delivery, labor, nurseries and postpartum areas; Surgery Suite shall include operating,
16
recovery, cast and cystoscopic rooms and central supply and related functions; Rehabilitation Service and Psychiatric Service shall include all inpatient and outpatient areas and related services and functions. It is also understood that in the medical offices there are related services and functions which in the application of this Section qualify as "multiple service" areas such as, but not limited to Emergency Room/Observation/Non-appointment area and the Medical Department/Medical Procedure rooms and the Surgery Department/Surgery Procedure rooms.
71. Further the following geographical areas are to be considered as facilities (or
locations) and its environs herein before referred to for the purpose of this Section 4 only:
Antioch Berkeley Berkeley Regional Lab Campbell Davis Fairfield Fremont Gilroy Hayward Livermore Martinez Miipitas Modesto Mountain View
Napa Novato Oakland Petaluma Pleasanton Rancho Cordova Redwood City Richmond Roseville
Sacramento Call Cntr San Francisco (including French)
San Jose Call Center San Rafael Santa Clara Santa Rosa Santa Teresa South Sacramento South San Francisco Stockton Vacaville
Vallejo Call Center Walnut Creek
Section 5 - Workload Distribution
72. When an employee is absent for any reason and if a replacement cannot be obtained in time, it is the intention of the Employer to distribute the workload equitably among the employees in the work unit so that no undue hardship may be placed on an individual worker. It is further the intent of the Employer, subject to the dispute section of this Agreement, to distribute the workloads equitably among employees in both single work units and departments.
Section 6 - Distribution of "Standby" Time, Overtime and Additional Hours
73. Standby Distribution - The Employer will distribute standby duty in a rotational sequence established by seniority among those qualified employees in any one classification concerned at any one location who have volunteered to be on the standby list. The Employer will maintain lists of those employees requesting standby. If no one on the list volunteers to take the standby and no other qualified employee volunteers, it will be assigned on a rotational basis by
17
reverse bargaining unit seniority within the department to those who have volunteered to be on the standby list; or, if there have been no such volunteers for the list, to those qualified employees in the unit on a rotational basis by reverse bargaining unit seniority within the department.
74. Overtime and Additional Hours - The Employer shall assign overtime and additional hours to employees in any one classification concerned at any one location who have volunteered to be on the list for overtime or additional hours. Such work shall be assigned from the lists in the following order, based upon bargaining unit seniority within the department:
1. All Regular employees. 2. All eligible Short-Hour employees. "3: " All ineligible Short-Hour, Casual and Temporary employees.
75. If no one on the list volunteers for overtime or additional hours, and no other qualified employee volunteers, it will be assigned on a rotational basis by reverse seniority to those who have volunteered to be on the iist; or, if there had been no volunteers for such list, to those qualified employees in the unit on a rotational basis by reverse seniority. The assignment of additional'hours shall not require the Employer to split the additional hours among two or more employees, to pay overtime as a result of such assignment or to change the employees' normally assigned work schedule.
Section 7 - Split Shifts
76. A.straight shift is defined as a regular day's work of eight (8) hours completed within nine (9) consecutive hours with no more than one (1) hour for lunch.
77. A split shift is defined as eight (8) hours completed within a spread in excess of nine (9) consecutive hours without more than one break.
78. In addition to their regular rate of pay, employees performing work on a split shift completed within a spread of not more than eleven (11) hours shall be paid the appropriate premium as set forth in the California State Industrial Welfare Orders. In addition, any split shift work completed beyond a spread of eleven (11) consecutive hours shall be paid for at the rate of time and onehalf (1-1/2) for all hours worked beyond the eleven (11) hour spread.
79. There shall be no new split shifts except as requested by the employee and approved by the Employer and the Union.
Section 8 - Rest Periods
80. Each employee is allowed a rest period during each continuous four (4) hours of work. If continuous operation is required in the job concerned, a substitute
18
will be provided for the rest period. The exact length of the rest period is determined by the distance to the nearest convenience. In no case shall a rest period be longer than fifteen (15) minutes nor less than ten (10) minutes.
ARTICLE VIII - OVERTIME AND ALLOWED TIME
Section 1 - Intent of Article
81. This Article is intended to provide the basis for calculation of and payment for overtime and allowed time and shall not be construed as a guarantee of hours of work per day or per week or days of work per week.
Section 2 - Definition of Terms
82. "Payroll Week" as used in this Article shall mean and consist of the seven (7) day period beginning at 12:01 a.m., Sunday, or at the shift changing hour nearest that time.
83. "Payroll Day" as used in this Article shall mean and consist of a twenty-four (24) hour period, beginning at the same time each Payroll Day as the Payroll Week begins.
Section 3 - Overtime Rates
84. Employees shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2) the straighttime hourly rate, including shift differential and split shift differential, for all hours of work performed in excess of eight (8) hours in any one work day and/or for all hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours within the work week. Employees shall be paid at the rate of double the straight-time hourly rate including shift differential and split shift differential for all hours worked in excess of twelve (12) consecutive hours in any one workday.
85. Employees assigned to a scheduled work week of twenty (20) hours or niore in a period of more than five (5) work days shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2) for all hours of work performed on the sixth (6th) day of work; whether or not such hours of work are in excess of forty (40) hours within the work week.
86. Employees shall be paid at the rate of double the straight-time hourly rate, including shift differential and split shift differential, for all hours of work performed on the seventh (7th) consecutive Payroll Day worked within the Payroll Week.
Section 4 - "Standby" Pay and Duty
19
87. Employees on a predetermined work schedule who are placed on standby duty beyond their regularly scheduled work day or work week shall be allowed within the following thirty (30) days at the option of the employee, (subject to efficient operations) either compensatory time off equal to one-half (1/2) of the time they were on such standby duty, or payment for such time at one-half (1/2) times their straight-time hourly rate including shift differential and split shift differential. Requests and approval for compensatory time off shall be in writing. The election for compensatory time off must be submitted within the payroll period in which the standby occurs. If no request is submitted as set forth above, the employee shall receive pay rather than compensatory time off. In the event more than one employee requests the same compensatory day or days off and the Employer cannot accommodate such requests because of patient care requirements, elections for compensatory time off, to the'extent that they can be accommodated to such requirements, shall be determined on the basis of bargaining unit seniority within the department.
. Standby duty assigned on a recognized holiday shall be paid at.three-quarters (3/4) times their regular base rate.
--
120. The UCRC shall have thirty (30) days to appeal the Employer's determination, stating its reasons therefor, to an expedited grievance procedure.
121. Such a procedure shall consist of two steps:
A. A joint meeting shall be convened between the UCRC and the Employer representatives. Such meetings shall be held on the first and third Wednesday of each month as required or as otherwise mutually agreed to by the parties. Unpaid release time for the two employee members of the UCRC will be provided for the purpose of attending these joint meetings, subject to the requirements of efficient operations. If the individual cannot be released and an alternate UCRC member cannot be appointed, another meeting date will be selected by the parties. If, following the meeting, the classification issue has not been satisfactorily resolved, the Union may, within five (5) days, appeal the dispute to Step 2 (arbitration) of this expedited procedure.
B. Arbitration (Step 4 of the grievance procedure as described in the Master Agreement).
122. If the Employer fails to observe any of the above-prescribed time limits, the Union may appeal the issue to the next level in this process. Should the Union Committee not appeal the job classification determination within the prescribed time limit, the dispute shall be considered settled. Time limits specified herein may be extended by mutual agreement.
27
123. Release time: five (5) hours per month of unpaid release time shall be authorized for each of the two (2) employees on the UCRC to be used for investigation and preparation of classification claims.
Section-9 - Maintenance, Service and Technical Classifications
124. An employee who is promoted to a senior/lead position shall be paid at the step of the new position, which will provide an increase of at least five percent per hour above his/her former rate.
125. Under the specific conditions presented in the Letter of Understanding revised July 20, 1972, (see Appendix H) any employee who delivers patient care as traditionally considered in terms of nursing such as practiced by Nurse Attendants-and Medical Assistants (Clinic Assistants) in nursing'departments and who possesses a valid State of California license as a Licensed Vocational Nurse shall be so classified and paid. All Licensed Vocational Nurses may wear the appropriate pin and cap or other insignia .designating such certification.
126. Employees from other departments who deliver patient care as-traditionally "considered-in terms of nursing, such as practiced by Nurse Attendants and Medical Assistants (Clinic Assistants) in nursing departments, and who obtain a valid State of California license as a Licensed Vocational Nurse shall be so classified and .paid retroactively to the date they presented their license to the Employer provided they accept the first available LVN vacancy to which their Seniority rights entitle them which is comparable in status, i.e., short-hour, regular, or casual, to their current position. Failure to accept such position will result in forfeiture of the retroactive reclassification provided for in this paragraph. Determination of the LVN step rate to which they are assigned .and the date they begin to accumulate credit for tenure step-increases =will be based upon the specific conditions presented in the Letter of Understanding revised July 20, 1972.
127. Any employee working in a Maintenance, Service and Technical classification who, as a part of his/her regular predetermined work schedule, performs work in a higher classification (except for rest period and meal relief) shall be paid at the higher rate of pay for all hours worked in the higher classification (that step in the higher classification which provides a minimum increase of $0.15 per hour).
128. An employee promoted from a Maintenance, Service or Technical classification to another Maintenance, Service, Technical or Clerical classification shall be paid the first step rate of the new classification which is next above his/her former rate and which will provide an increase of at least $0.15 per hour except that in no case will an employee be eligible for a rate in excess of the maximum of his/her new classification. In addition to this
28
minimum increase, the employee shall receive credit for time spent in the assigned step rate of his/her former classification in determining his/her eligible date for future step rate increases in his/her new classification unless he/she is receiving the maximum step rate of his/her classification at the time of promotion. (For transfers between geographical areas, see Appendix A, Sections 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5.)
129. An employee who is permanently transferred to a position in a lower grade shall receive the step rate which is equal to or next below his/her former rate. In addition, the employee shall receive credit for time spent in the assigned step rate of his/her former classification in determining his/her eligible date for future step rate increases in his/her new classification unless he/she is receiving the maximum step rate of his/her classification at the time of transfer to the lower grade. (For transfers between geographical areas, see Appendix A, Sections 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5).
Section 10 - Clerical Classifications
130. An employee who is promoted to a senior/lead position shall be paid at the step of the new position, which will provide an increase of at least five percent per hour above his/her former rate.
131. Using the "Kaiser Foundation Hospitals Manual for the Evaluation of Clerical Positions," the Employer and the Union have jointly classified each existing position into one of the scheduled grades on the basis of the duties and responsibilities of the position.
132. An employee who is permanently promoted to a position in a higher grade or classification (a higher starting rate of pay) shall be paid the first step of the new position grade or classification which is next above his/her former rate and which will provide an increase of at least $0.15 per hour.
133. In addition to this minimum increase, employees who are permanently promoted from a position in a Clerical classification to another position in a Clerical classification or to a position in the Maintenance, Service or Technical classifications shall receive credit for time spent in his/her assigned step rate of his/her former classification in determining his/her eligibility date for future step rate increases in his/her new classification unless the employee is receiving the maximum step rate of his/her classification at the time of promotion. (For promotions into a different geographical area, see Appendix A, Sections 1, 2, 3,4, and 5.)
134. An employee who is transferred to another position in the same grade: 1) shall receive not less than his/her former rate (Structure A employees only); and 2) shall receive credit for time spent at his/her assigned step rate in his/her former position for the purpose of determining the date of his/her step rate
29
adjustment, if any (all employees). (For transfers between geographical areas, see Appendix A, Section 1,2,3, 4, and 5.)
135. An employee who is permanently transferred to a position in a lower grade shall receive the step rate which is equal to or next below his/her former rate. In addition, the employee shall receive credit for time spent in the assigned step rate of his/her former classification in determining his/her eligible date for future step rate increases in his/her new classification unless he/she is receiving the maximum step rate of his/her classification at the time of transfer to the lower grade. (For demotions into a different geographical area, see Appendix A, Sections 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5.)
--
155. Holiday schedules shall be posted at least thirty (30) days and no more than one (1) year prior to the holiday. The Employer will first seek volunteers by shift for the holiday work and if there are more volunteers than needed, holiday assignments will be based on bargaining unit seniority by shift. If there are not enough volunteers for the holiday work, the Employer will assign the work by reverse bargaining unit seniority to those qualified employees on the shift.
156. However, if shifts are combined because of the holiday, bargaining unit seniority among all employees in the department shall be used to determine holiday assignments. This holiday scheduling shall be based on operational needs.
157. Unless approved by the Employer this provision shall not result in any premium pay other than premium pay for the worked holiday.
158. By mutual agreement of the parties, bargaining unit seniority may be used without regard to shift.
Section 12 - Observation. Sunday Holidays
159. Holidays falling on Sunday (Christmas, New Year's and July 4th) shall be observed on that Sunday. Holiday premium rates for time worked on the holiday shall only be paid for hours worked on the Sunday shift to a. maximum of eight (8) hours. Holiday premium rates will not apply to any hours worked on the Monday following the Sunday holiday shift. Regular employees whose normally scheduled day off falls on the Sunday holiday or who work the Sunday holiday and are entitled to another day off, shall take their holiday off on the Monday following the Sunday holiday as required by the Employer (it is understood that Medical Center and other operations will be significantly reduced on the Monday following the Sunday holiday).
Section 13 - Definition of Pay
160. Pay, as referred to in this Article, means base rate plus any shift differential and split shift differential being received by the employee concerned.
161. Holiday pay will be paid for the shift in which the majority of the hours are worked on the holiday.
34
ARTICLE XIII - VACATIONS
Section 1 - Vacation Pay
162. All Regular employees who have been continuously in service with the Employer for a period of one (1) year shall be entitled to two (2) weeks' vacation with pay.
163. All Regular employees who have been continuously in service with the Employer for a period of two (2) years shall annually thereafter be entitled to three (3) weeks' vacation with pay.
164. All Regular employees who have been continuously in service with the Employer for a period of five (5) years shall annually thereafter be entitled to four (4) weeks' vacation with pay.
165. All Regular employees who have been continuously in service with the Employer for a period of ten (10) years shall annually thereafter be entitled to five (5) weeks' vacation with pay.
166. Employees may split their vacation into increments of not less than four (4) hours, subject to the requirements of efficient operations.
167. The vacation pay for Regular full-time employees shall be the base rate,, including shift differential and split shift differential, for their regular straighttime schedule of work. The vacation pay for Regular part-time employees shall be the base rate, including shift differential and split shift differential, at the time the vacation is taken, times the average number of straight-time hours worked per week during the vacation accrual year. If such pay for a Regular part-time employee exceeds the employee's regular schedule, the excess shall be attributed to weeks of earned vacation and shall be paid on days not normally scheduled. Except as described above, vacation accruals shall be based on an eligible employee's regular schedule and shall be affected only by permanent schedule changes.
Section 2 - Vacation Scheduling
168. Such vacation periods shall be designated by the Employer so as not to adversely affect the efficiency of operations and shall be designated during the twelve (12) month period following the date of eligibility for the vacation. Normally vacations may not be carried over from one anniversary year to the next. However, unused vacation may be granted up to six months after the completion of that year with the supervisor's approval, if due to operating requirements, the employee has been unable to take his/her complete vacation within the required time limits. In addition, regular employees with
35
five (5) or more years of continuous service may carry over one (1) week's unused vacation to their next anniversary year provided that they notify their supervisor in writing of their intention at least thirty (30) days prior to the completion of the anniversary year in which the one (1) week's vacation would normally be taken.
169. Employees will submit to their supervisors in January of each year a list of their first, second, and third choices for vacation dates occurring during the twelve-month period commencing April 1st. On or before March 15th of each calendar year, the supervisor or department head will post the vacation schedule for that year. Whenever possible, employees shall be given preference on the basis of bargaining unit seniority within the department in the choice of vacation periods with full consideration to the length of employment regardless of bargaining unit status.
170. If a holiday as set forth in Article XII occurs during the employee's vacation-period, he/she shall be granted an additional day of vacation at his/her regular pay, or an additional day's pay in the amount he/she would have received had he/she not been on vacation at the option of the Employer.
171. Employees eligible for vacation may during each anniversary year chose pay in lieu of up to 50 percent of their earned annual vacation. Acceptance of in lieu shall be voluntary. NOTE: Final language pending IRS research.
Section 3 - Call-Back
172. In the event an employee is called back to work while on vacation, he/she shall be paid at time and one-half (1-1/2) in addition to his/her vacation pay. In instances where there is a combination of vacation-and -work on a prescheduled basis, vacation hours paid shall count as hours worked in determining eligibility for weekly overtime.
Section 4 - Radiologic Technologist Special Compensation
173. Effective November 4, 1990, Regular employees hired prior to October 25, 1986, shall receive, once each year, (December 1) a lump sum payment equal to eighty (80) hours straight-time pay. Part-time Regular employees shall have their lump sum payment prorated. This lump sum payment shall not apply to employees at the Kaiser Permanente Medical Facility in Fresno. Section 5 - Vacation Pay for Terminated Employees
174. Regular employees with at least six (6) months of service shall be entitled to vacation pay prorated on the basis of actual months of service in accordance with the benefits outlined in Section 1 of this Article at the conclusion of their employment. However, the Employer can require at least one (1) week's
36
notice of the intention of an employee to quit as a condition of this proration of vacation pay.
175. Employees discharged for cause with less than one year's service shall not be entitled to prorated vacation.
ARTICLE XIV - PERQUISITES
Section 1 - Room and Personal Laundry
176. When the Employer offers any employee the option of room and/or personal laundry service in partial satisfaction of the employee's wages, the amount to be deducted from the wages of the employee shall be a matter of individual arrangement between the Employer and the employee. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to require the Employer to make or continue to make available room or personal laundry service.
--
187. An employee hospitalized while on vacation is eligible to convert vacation time to unused sick leave for the period of hospitalization provided reasonable proof of the hospitalization is provided. Conversion of vacation time to sick leave time will apply only to those days the employee was pre-scheduled for vacation
188. An employee who suffers a disabling illness or injury of at least five (5) consecutive days duration while on prescheduied vacation leave, may convert 50% of the verified period of illness to unused sick leave. Such conversion shall be limited to blocks of pre-scheduled vacation of one or more weeks. The employer shall require reasonable proof of the disabling illness or injury, obtained at the time of the disabling event.
189. Upon completion of the probationary period, paid sick leave shall also apply for hours directly associated with medical, dental, or mental health appointments. For those employees whose appointments are away from the facility where they work the appointment will be scheduled so that at least a part of the scheduled appointment falls in the first or last hour of each paid period of scheduled work. The employee will give written notice of at least twenty-four (24) hours and supply verification that the appointment was kept.
190. Sick leave shall be applicable not only as described elsewhere in this Article, but also for mental health treatment as an in-patient and/or outpatient in an accredited institution
39
Section 4 - Holiday During Sick Leave
191. If an employee is absent on paid sick leave and a holiday occurs during such absence, if he/she is eligible for holiday pay, such pay shall be charged to the holiday and not against sick leave credits.
Section 5 - Integration With Disability and Workers' Compensation
192. If an employee is eligible for basic UCD benefits, Employer-paid sick leave shall be reduced by the amount of the UCD benefit the employee is eligible to receive. Payments received in the form of basic UCD benefits shall not be charged against the employee's accumulated sick leave.
193. If an employee is eligible for Worker's Compensation Insurance payment, the same method of integration with Employer paid sick leave shall apply. Employees who.receive full sick leave and are subsequently reimbursed by Worker's Compensation or State Disability Insurance benefits will have their pay adjusted by the amount of overpayment and their sick leave recredited proportionately.
Section 6 - Return From Sick Leave
--
Section 3 - Written Confirmation
199. Leaves of absence and renewals thereof shall be in writing with one (1) copy to the employee and one (1) copy to the Personnel Office.
Section 4 - Insurance Benefits Purina Leave of Absence
200. An employee placed on an authorized leave of absence must pay the required premium necessary for continued insurance benefits as specified in Article XXII during the period of any authorized leave of absence, except in the case of industrial disability leave, as provided in Section 5 of this Article.
Section 5 - Industrial Disability
201. Leave of absence for an industrial injury or illness shall be granted for the period of the employee's disability or for thirty (30) day renewable increments based upon a physician's certification setting forth the length of such disability.
41
Such industrial leaves shall not exceed a total of six (6) months. However, for those employees with two (2) or more years of continuous service, such industrial leaves shall be extended beyond that time for a period not to exceed an additional six (6) months upon a physician's verification of need. During the period of time during which an employee is on a leave of absence resulting from an industrial injury or illness incurred in the course of employment or arising out of employment with the Employer, he/she shall accrue service credit for the purposes of wage tenure increases. For a maximum of six (6) months during the period of the leave, or up to a maximum of twelve (12) months for those employees with two (2) or more years of continuous service, the employee shall continue to be covered by the Health Plan and the life insurance policy, defined in Article XXII of this Agreement at the Employer's expense.
202. An employee eligible for 12 months' industrial leave of absence who has been terminated due to his/her inability to return to work shall retain seniority as of that date for a period of an additional one (1) year. Such, seniority may,be utilized during the one (1) year period only for the purpose of bidding on vacancies for which he/she is qualified.
Section 6 - Return from Leave
203. When an employee returns to duty from an authorized leave of absence -he/she shall be reinstated in the same classification, position,...unit,.shift and number of hours in which he/she was employed before his/her absence; but if operational conditions have changed so that it is not reasonable to so reinstate him/her, the Employer will reinstate him/her in a classification that is as nearly comparable to his/her original classification as is reasonable under the circumstances. Prior notice of two (2) weeks of intent to return from a leaveof absence must be given by the employee to the employee's supervisor as a condition of reinstatement to any position.
204. In the event the employee has returned to a job in a department other than that from which he/she was granted his/her leave of absence, he/she shall retain his/her total bargaining unit seniority which he/she had accrued at the time the leave of absence commenced. Such seniority shall be used for the purposes of bidding on vacancies in his/her prior department for a period of six (6) months or until he/she has declined a position in his/her prior department and classification, whichever occurs first.
205. All persons hired to replace employees who are on a leave of absence shall be so advised and shall be informed of the approximate date the Regular employee is expected to return from leave.
Section 7 - Modified Work Plans
42
206. Nothing herein shall prohibit the Employer and the Union from mutually agreeing to "reasonable accommodations" for injured or disabled employees.
ARTICLE XVII - BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
207. When a death occurs in the immediate family of an employee, he/she shall be entitled to a leave of absence of up to three (3) days with pay. Immediate family is defined as spouse/domestic partner, sister, brother, daughter, son, mother, mother-in-law, father, father-in-law, or grandparents. In addition, the employee shall be granted an additional two (2) days* unpaid leave of absence if the funeral is out of state.
208. If an employee is on vacation and a death occurs in the employee's immediate family, the employee may convert such vacation time to funeral leave, provided however:
A. The employee requests such conversion in writing on a form designated by the Employer within five (5) working days upon return from scheduled vacation.
B. The form shall in part require the following information:
1. Name and relationship of deceased immediate family member.
2. Date of death and appropriate recording entity within the country or state in which the death occurred.
3. Dates of vacation days to be converted to funeral leave.
209. Pay for such leave shall be calculated in the same manner as that for paid sick leave in Article XV.
ARTICLE XVII! - PAID EDUCATIONAL LEAVE
Section 1 - Eligible Employees
210. After the completion of one full year of service, employees shall begin to earn paid educational leave at the rate of forty (40) hours per year, accumulative to a maximum of 160 hours. Paid educational leave may be taken by full days or by hourly increments as time away from the job, commencing with the thirteenth month of service. Part-time Regular employees will accrue paid educational leave on a prorated basis up to a maximum of one hundred sixty (160) hours.
43
Section 2 - Eligible Programs
211. Educational programs and programs necessary for licensure or relicensure will be related to the current job or jobs to which the employee can expect to transfer or be promoted in the usual course of eligibility in accordance with the following:
212. Education programs to be considered for paid educational leave will be as follows:
A. Formally organized courses related to the employee's current job or jobs to which the employee can expect to transfer or be promoted in the usual course of eligibility or, if mutually agreed, in another appropriate job field.
B. Formally organized seminars and symposia dealing with contemporary practices in the employee's current job or jobs to which.the employee can expect to transfer or be promoted in the usual course of eligibility or, if mutually agreed upon, in another appropriate job field.
C. Formally organized courses in related subjects leading to a degree in the employee's current job or jobs to which the employee can expect to transfer or be promoted in the usual course of eligibility or, if mutually agreed upon, in another appropriate job field.
D. Formally organized specialized courses relating to the employee's current job field.
213. The various programs covered above include those sponsored by educational institutions- -government agencies, hospital, union, -or- professional associations. It is agreed that the above set forth activities shall be job related or those to which the employee can expect to transfer or be promoted in the usual course of eligibility. Educational leave shall be applicable only for actual attendance in the course, seminar, class or symposium and shall not apply for preparatory time incidental to those courses, seminars, classes, or symposia.
Section 3 - Administration
214. Requests for leave shall be made in writing setting forth the details, i.e., dates, hours, subject, faculty and purpose of taking the course. The employee may be requested by the Employer to make a report on subject activity in writing to be presented to the employee's supervisor or department manager.
215. If an employee submits a written request for paid educational leave at least one (1) month in advance, the Employer will notify the employee in writing at least two (2) weeks in advance as to whether the requested leave will be
44
permitted or denied. A later request will not be denied solely because of nonconformance with this time limit.
216. Such leave shall not be unreasonably denied without adequate cause based upon operational requirements nor because of the season of the year.
Section 4 - Hours Paid
217. An employee who is entitled to education leave may elect to utilize up to (16) sixteen hours per year of their educational leave pay, on a day or days when the employee is not normally scheduled to work, including home based courses. The educational course must meet the following and all other criteria established above for paid educational leave:
--
45
219. A night shift (as opposed to day or evening shift) employee who is presently licensed, certified or registered as defined by the Collective Bargaining Agreement who attends educational programs which would otherwise qualify under the educational leave and pay provision but fall entirely outside of the employee's night shift may accumulate such educational leave time until he/she has accumulated the equivalent of a full shift. At that time equivalent paid time off at the mutual convenience of the facility and the employee will be arranged.
ARTICLE XIX - IN-SERVICE EDUCATION
220. When an In-Service Education Program is provided by the Employer for employees in a particular classification or classifications under the Agreement, the Employer will use its best efforts to insure that the training sessions are available to all employees in such classification or classifications. Such best efforts shall include duplicates of program on alternate shifts when appropriate, alternating the time and shift of showing or rescheduling of employees upon their request when operations permit. In the event that such best efforts are unsuccessful, the Employer will meet with the Union for the purpose of working out a mutually acceptable solution.
221. Other interested employees may attend such programs when space is available to permit their attendance and, secondly, if such program is during the employee's working hours, their supervisor is able to arrange to let them leave their assignment without unduly affecting the work flow.
222. When an In-Service Education Program provided by the Employer qualifies for accreditation by the State for purposes of continuing education for relicensure or recodification, the Employer will seek such accreditation and obligate itself to pay state fees required for the state to make such determination.
ARTICLE XX - TRAINING COMMITTEE
223. Joint Training Committees may be established at each medical center. The committees shall each consist of not more than three (3) representatives from management and three (3) representatives from the Union, and shall meet not more than three (3) hours per month unless the time is extended by mutual agreement. Such time in these meetings shall be consistent with the operational requirements of the medical center.
224. The Committees shall study and investigate areas where additional employee training would create opportunities for advancement to positions that are expected to become available. Subject to full approval of Union and
46
management representatives, the committee may initiate meetings with appropriate outside agencies to identify available resources and services.
225. Training shall be subject to the Employer's needs to continue the highest quality of medical care consistent with efficiency of operations and services rendered to the Health Plan membership.
226. Recommendations from the Committee shall be forwarded in writing to the facility administrator for his/her consideration and review, and he/she shall advise the Committee in writing of the disposition of the recommendations.
ARTICLE XXI - JURY DUTY PAY
227. An employee required to report for jury service or subpoenaed to appear as a witness in a judicial procedure arising out of his/her employment will be excused from work on such days and shall receive, on days he/she otherwise would have worked, the difference between his/her regular straight-time day's pay and any amount of jury pay or witness fees received. The employee must show proof of having been directed to report in connection with jury service or the subpoena and the amount of such fees.
228. On any day of jury service or such subpoena during which an employee is excused entirely or in sufficient time to permit him/her to return to work for a minimum of one-half (1/2) his/her regular scheduled shift, he/she shall be required to do so and the pay provided for herein shall be reduced accordingly.
229. For judicial service as set forth in Paragraph 227 during hours other than normally scheduled hours, the employee shall not be required to work regularly scheduled hours with less than an eight (8) hour interval from such service. Such service shall include travel time. Such protected time lost shall not result in loss of pay when considered in conjunction with fee received.
230. Pay provided for in this Article for work which was not performed shall be included in the hours worked for the purposes of calculating daily or weekly overtime.
ARTICLE XXII - INSURANCE BENEFITS
Section 1 - Health Insurance
231.
Description of Coverage
47
232. 233. 234. 235. 236.
The Employer agrees to provide Kaiser Foundation Health Plan benefits currently described as "SS" coverage, the Psychiatric Plan, pre-paid maternity, durable medical equipment coverage and the Optical Plan for Regular employees, spouse/domestic partner arid eligible dependents or to pay the premium required to provide the alternate medical plan coverage as described in the plan document. Effective August 1, 1996, the.Employer agrees to provide the drug benefit currently described as Kaiser Foundation Health Plan Drug Program Benefit "N" ($5.00 co-pay) or the Drug Program Benefit ($5.00 co-pay) included under the alternate medical plan to all Regular employees/retirees, their spouses/domestic partners and their dependents. The $5.00 drug co-pay shall apply to eligible employees who retire on or after January 1, 1998.
Eligible Dependents
Eligible dependents shall also include unmarried children of the employee and the employee's spouse/domestic partner to age twenty five (25) provided they have the same regular residence as the employee and are dependent upon the employee for support and maintenance.
Maintenance of Benefits
The Employer agrees to pay any additional premium payments required to maintain the benefits described in Section T during the term of this Agreement, except as otherwise stated.
Effective Date of Coverage
Hospital-medical-surgical and drug coverage for employees and dependents shall become effective the first day of the month following the date the employee becomes a regular employee.
Change in Plans
Employees may change from one hospital-medical-surgical plan to another on January 1 of any year, provided they submit a notice in writing to the Employer's Human Resources Service Center of their desire to change Plans at least thirty (30) days prior to any January 1.
Ineligible Dependents
An employee's dependents who otherwise receive Kaiser Foundation Health Plan coverage by virtue of eligibility or membership through employment with another employer with benefits at least equal to
48
benefits received by dependents under the Employer's plan will not be eligible for Employer-paid dependent coverage. The Union shall cooperate in the administration of this Section.
237.
Retiree Coverage
The Employer agrees to provide to those employees covered by the Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Kaiser Foundation hospital-surgicalmedical benefits described as Senior Advantage or the alternate medical plan coverage integrated with Medicare, for employees retired under the normal, disability and postponed provisions of the pension plan and who are eligible for and participating in Parts A and B of Medicare. Employees retiring under the early or disability provisions of the pension plan shall become eligible for the Kaiser Foundation Health Plan Senior Advantage coverage (or the dual choice option if accepted by the Administrator) upon becoming eligible for and participating in Parts A and B of Medicare. For early and disability retirees who retire after November 1, 1992, the requirement that employees must maintain Kaiser coverage during the period from early retirement to age sixty-five (65) in order to qualify for coverage at age sixty-five is eliminated. Covered spouses/domestic partners of such employees must also enroll in Parts A and B of Medicare when eligible. Medicare-eligible employees who retired prior to August 1, 1996, along with their Medicare-eligible dependents, will be allowed to retain their existing coverage presently described as "MS" or may choose to enroll in the Senior Advantage Plan provided they meet eligibility requirements. Employees who retire on or after August 1, 1996, and their dependents will be required to enroll in the Senior Advantage Plan upon becoming Medicare-eligible. The medical benefits that retirees receive from the Senior Advantage program will continue to be the same as those described as the "SS" coverage in Article XXII, Section 1. Retirees covered by Senior Advantage must receive all medical care at Kaiser Permanente facilities in order to receive benefits. If individuals covered under this plan move outside the Kaiser Permanente service area, and do not elect the alternate medical plan, Kaiser Permanente will offer its Out of Area Group plan. However, effective January 1, 1997, such Medicare-eligible retirees and their dependents will be required to pay that amount of the Out of Area retiree group rate which is in excess of the Health Plan retiree group rate in effect on January 1 of each year. Dependents of employees who retire on or after August 1, 1996 who are not yet Medicareeligible must enroll in Kaiser Permanente's Senior Advantage Plan as soon as they become eligible in order to maintain health plan coverage.
238. For employees hired after October 25, 1986, fifteen (15) years of service under the Retirement Plan shall be required for eligibility for the post-
49
retirement health care coverage described above, and such coverage shall not include optical benefits.
239. Costs for post-retirement medical coverage shall be shared as follows for employees who terminate on or after January 1, 1998, and who meet the eligibility requirements for retiree medical coverage. Such costs will be based on the January 1 retiree Senior Advantage group rate for each year.
Years of Service
Employer Monthly Payments
Retiree Monthly Payments
50%
55%
60%
65%
70%
20
75%
21
80%
22
85%
23
--
50% 45% 40% 35% 30% 25% 20% 15% 10% 5% 0%
Section.2 - Life Insurance
240. The Employer will provide each Regular employee with $5,000 Group Life Insurance and $5,000 Accidental Death and Dismemberment coverage and the cost of such coverage shall be paid by the Employer.
241. Coverage shall become effective the first day of the month following the date the employee becomes a Regular employee.
50
Section 3 - Dental Insurance
242. Basic Coverage
An Employer-paid Dental Program will be provided to all Regular employees, their spouses/domestic partners, and their eligible dependent children up to age 25 provided such employees have been continuously employed as Regular employees for six (6) or more continuous months. The basic dental plan shall be for covered services at the rate of 90% of usual, reasonable customary fees, except for 50% reimbursement for bridges and dentures.
243. Claims Disputes
The Employer will provide a central area for resolving difficulties in processing claims and the Union may designate a representative to assist in the expediting of these problems with the dental insurance carrier.
244. Orthodontia Coverage
Orthodontia coverage for dependent children to age eighteen (18) at- 50% of usual, reasonable and customary charges for corrective procedures only to $1,000 lifetime maximum, will be provided at the Employer's expense.
245. Coordination of Benefits
If employees and eligible dependents entitled to dental benefits under this Agreement are also entitled to dental benefits,under another group plan, benefits from this plan will be coordinated with the benefits from any other group plans so that up to 100% of the allowable expenses incurred during a benefit year will be paid jointly by the plans. An allowable expense is any necessary, reasonable and customary item of dental expense covered in full or in part under any one of the group plans involved. This plan will always pay either its regular benefits in full or a reduced amount which when added to the benefits payable by other group plans, will equal 100% of allowable expenses during each benefit year. Also in cases where an employee is entitled to Dental Benefits under this Agreement in his/her own right and also as a dependent of another employee in this same plan such coordination of benefits shall be applicable.
Section 4 - Short Hour Employee's Coverage
246. Short-Hour employees as defined in Paragraph 98 whose regular predetermined work schedule is at least eight (8) hours per week may purchase at their own expense through a payroll deduction plan the same Kaiser Foundation Health Plan coverage available to regular employees under this Agreement provided that a minimum of 75% of all eligible Short-Hour
51
employees in the Region elect to purchase and continue to purchase such Health Plan coverage: Coverage will be offered on the Health Plan's three-rate structure. At any time participation falls below seventy-five percent (75%) of the group of eligible employees such coverage shall be discontinued. There shall be an annual enrollment period during which these eligible Short-Hour employees may elect to purchase the coverage.
Section 5 - Complete Details on Benefits
247. This Agreement contains only a summary of benefit plans. Complete details concerning these benefits are contained in the appropriate provider contracts, plan documents or summary plan descriptions which are provided to the Union. Summary plan descriptions shall be provided by the Employer to employees upon request.
Also refer to the National Agreement, October 1, 2000 for additional information regarding Insurance.
ARTICLE XXIII - DOMESTIC PARTNER COVERAGE
248. The following benefits and policies shall be offered to employees' domestic partners and their eligible dependents, who meet the eligibility requirements as stated in paragraph 249.
A. Medical Benefits B. Dental Benefits C. Bereavement Leave D. Post-retirement Medical Benefits
Eligibility
249. In order for an employee to be eligible for domestic partner benefits provided in this Agreement, he/she and the individual for whom benefits are being applied, must provide a completed Affidavit of Domestic Partnership as requested by the Employer. For purposes of this Agreement, a domestic partnership is one in which the employee and the domestic partner both meet all the following requirements:
A. Live together, sharing the same living quarters as a primary residence, in an intimate, committed relationship and mutual caring;
B. Have no other domestic partner at this time;
C. Are responsible for each other's basic living expenses during the domestic partnership, and agree to be financially responsible for any
52
debts each other incurs as a direct result of Kaiser Permanente's extension of benefits to either domestic partner; D. Are not married to anyone; E. Are 18 years of age or older; F. Are not related to each other as a parent, brother or sister, half brother or sister, niece, nephew, aunt, uncle, grandparent, or grandchild; and G. Have not been covered by Kaiser Permanente sponsored benefits with another domestic partner at any time during the last twelve (12) months. 250. The Employer's provision of insurance benefits to domestic partners and their eligible dependents will be in accordance with applicable federal and state laws, withholding tax requirements and Internal Revenue Service requirements.
ARTICLE XXIV - ANNUAL PHYSICAL EXAMINATIONS 251. When an employee is notified of the need to complete his/her annual physical
examination, he/she may select from the Department of Medicine a Permanente Medical Group, Inc. physician of his/her choice; however, if the employee fails to secure an appointment for his/her physical examination within thirty (30) days following notification, the Employer may assign a Permanente Medical Group, Inc. physician for the examination.
ARTICLE XXV - UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION 252. The Employer will cause employees to be covered by unemployment
insurance and disability compensation in accordance with the terms of the California Unemployment Insurance Code. 253. The above coverage may be adjusted during the life of this Agreement in the event future legislation is enacted that is applicable to non-profit hospitals.
53
ARTICLE XXVI - PENSIONS
Section 1 - Participation
254. All Regular employees are eligible to participate in the Kaiser Permanente Employees Pension Plan after twelve (12) months of service. Major benefit provisions of the plan are described below. A full description of the plan is contained in a separate summary plan description distributed to all employees and a plan document is available for employee inspection.
Section 2 - Service
255. Years of service determines eligibility for Early Pension, Disability Pension or a Deferred Vested* Pension. Any calendar year in which an employee receives pay for 1,000 or more hours of employment with the Kaiser Permanente Medical Care Program is a year of service. In addition each year of employment with a member hospital of the Federation of Bay Area Hospital Retirement Plans and any member of the Affiliated Hospitals of San Francisco is a year of service if an employee had 1,000 or more hours of employment in such year and if the period between termination or commencement of employment with the Kaiser Permanente Medical Care Program and termination or commencement of employment with such member hospital does not exceed 90 .days.
Section 3 - Credited Service
256. Years of Credited Service determine the amount of the Normal Pension and other pensions provided by the Plan. Any calendar year in which an employee receives pay for 2,000 or more hours of employment with the Medical Care Program is a year of Credited Service. In calendar years in which an employee is paid for less than 2,000 hours, partial years of Credited Service are counted for periods of time when an employee is regularly scheduled to work 20 or more hours per week. For vested participants who terminate or retire after January 1, 1990, any calendar year during which the employee is in Short-Hour, Temporary, or Casual employee status and works one thousand (1,000) or more hours will be counted toward Credited Service. Final Average Monthly Compensation for Short-Hour, Temporary and Casual employees shall be calculated by reducing the employee's contractual pay rate by the amount of pay in lieu of benefits.
54
Section 4 - Eligibility for and Amount of Benefits
257. A. Normal Retirement
An employee is entitled to a Normal Monthly Pension if he/she retires on his/her 65th birthday. The Normal Pension for employees retiring on or after November 1,1978, is computed as follows:
258. 1. . For each year of Credited Service after 1978, 1.2% of Final Average Compensation (final average compensation is the monthly average of an employee's base wages over the highest 60 consecutive months of employment within the last 120 months of employment). Lump sum wage payments paid to employees during the term of the 1986-1989 Agreement shall be included in yearly compensation for the purposes of computing pension benefits. The month immediately before a month(s) in which the employee had no compensated hours of employment and the month immediately after such a period are considered to be consecutive months of employment; and
259. 2. For years of Credited Service before 1979, the larger of:
a. 1.2% of Final Average Monthly Compensation multiplied by years of Credited Service before 1979; or
b. The sum of the following:
1) For each year before 1964, 203% of 1-1/4% times monthly compensation in 1963;
2) For each year after 1963 but before 1971, 203% of 1% of base monthly compensation subject to Social Security tax plus 1-1/2% of any excess;
3) For each year after 1970 but before 1975, 145% of 1% of base monthly Compensation up to $650 plus 1-1/2% of any excess; and
4) For each year after 1974 but before 1979, 1 % of base monthly compensation up to $650 plus 1-1/2% of any excess.
260. B. Postponed Retirement
An employee is entitled to a Postponed Pension if he/she retires after his/her 65th birthday. The Postponed Pension is computed in the same
55
manner as a Normal Pension based upon the employee's Credited Service and Final Average Compensation as of his/her retirement date.
261. C. Early Retirement
An employee is entitled to an Early Pension if he/she retires after his/her fifty-fifth (55th) birthday and has ten (10) or more years of service. The Early Pension is computed in the same manner as a Normal Pension based upon Credited Service and final Average Compensation as of the employee's date of retirement, and actuarially reduced to reflect earlier commencement of benefits.
262. D. Disability Retirement
An employee is entitled to a Disability Pension if he/she is eligible for and receives disability income benefits under Title II of the Social Security Act when he/she retires and if he/she has ten (10) or more years of service. Eligibility for a Disability Pension is subject to periodic review by the Administrative Committee of the Plan. The Disability Pension is computed in the same manner as a Normal Pension, based upon the employee's years of Credited Service and Final Average Compensation at the time of his/her termination, and is not actuarially adjusted.
263. E. Deferred Vested Pension
An employee is entitled to a Deferred Vested Pension if his/her employment terminates and he/she has completed five (5) or more years of service or if the sum of his/her age and service totals sixty-five (65) or more for employees hired before January 1, 1976. If such employee dies prior to receiving benefits and is survived by a spouse, the spouse will receive a monthly benefit equal to the amount that would have been payable if the employee had retired the day before his/her death and elected the joint and survivor method of payment with a fifty percent (50%) continuation to the survivor. The Deferred Vested Pension is computed in the same manner as a Normal Pension, based on Credited Service and Final Average Compensation at termination of employment. Payments commence at age sixty-five (65), subject to filing a retirement application.
264. F. Survivor Annuity
An employee who has attained five (5) or more years of service is entitled to survivor annuity coverage. If such an employee dies prior to retirement, and is survived by a spouse, the spouse will receive a monthly benefit equal to the amount that would have been payable if
56
the employee had retired the day before his death and elected the joint and survivor method of payment with a 50% continuation to the survivor.
--
269. The cost of the Plan will be paid entirely by the Employer whose contributions are deposited in trusts created by the Employer.
Section 7 - Administration
270. The Plan is administered by a pension committee appointed by the Employer. Contributions to the plan are held in trust funds established by the Employer.
271. Upon request to the facility, an employee shall receive an accounting of the employee's current status relative to the Pension Plan. Section 8 - Salary Deferral Retirement Plan
57
272. All employees shall be eligible for the Kaiser Permanente Salary Deferral Retirement Plan (KPSDR), which allows tax-deferred contributions to a 401 (k) type retirement plan.
Also refer to the National Agreement October 1, 2000 for additional information regarding pensions.
ARTICLE XXVII - CHILD CARE
273. Effective June 3, 1990, Regular employees may make contributions to the Kaiser Permanente Dependent Care Reimbursement Program.
274. No later than June 1, 1993 a list of licensed child care providers from the State of California will be available in each facility's Personnel Office for use by employees. The Employer is providing this list as a courtesy, for informational purposes only. The Employer, nor the Union, had any role in preparing the list, and in no way endorses, recommends, or certifies the competence of any provider on the list. The Employer and the Union disclaims liability for any acts or omissions of any of the providers on the list.
ARTICLE XXVIII - CONSCIENTIOUS OBJECTION
275. The rights of patients to receive medical care and the obligation of the facility to render such care must be recognized and respected. In the case of therapeutic abortions, employees accept the obligation of providing competent medical care as a major responsibility; however, it is recognized that an employee may hold sincere moral or religious beliefs which require the employee in good conscience to refuse direct participation in such medical procedures.
276. The Employer agrees that an employee may refuse to directly participate in such medical procedures and will not be subject to coercion, censure, unreasonable transfer, unreasonable assignment or discipline by reason of such refusal. An employee who has an assignment where participation in therapeutic abortion occurs and who conscientiously objects to such participation, shall notify his/her supervisor of this position in writing which may require reassignment or transfer.
277. In emergency situations where the immediate nature of the patient's needs will not allow for substitution, the patient's right to receive medical care shall take precedence over the exercise of the employee's individual beliefs and rights. In such cases, the Employer shall arrange for reassignment/transfer at the earliest possible opportunity.
58
ARTICLE XXIX - UNION BUSINESS
278. Duly authorized representatives of the Union shall be permitted at all reasonable times to enter the facilities operated by the Employer for the purpose of transacting Union business and observing conditions under which employees are employed; provided, however, that no interference with the work of employees shall result and such right of entry shall at all times be subject to general hospital and clinic rules applicable to non-employees. The Union Representative shall, upon arrival at the facility, notify the office of Administration, or its designee of his/her presence.
279. The Employer agrees to recognize Union Stewards and Field Representatives duly appointed by the Union, who may receive complaints and see that the terms and conditions of the Labor Agreement are observed, provided that such activity does not unduly interfere with the work assignment of the Steward(s) or other employees. The Union will notify the Employer in writing of the names and assignments of all duly appointed Stewards and Field Representatives.
280. Employees have the right to have a Union Steward or Union representative present at meetings with supervisors or management representatives when such meetings are accusatory or disciplinary in nature. Furthermore, the Employer shall advise the employee in advance if a requested meeting may result in suspension, discharge or other discipline of the employee.
281. Union Field Representatives shall be allowed access to appropriate materials in personnel files which are directly related to an alleged contract violation if the employee's written consent is presented to Personnel. The Employer will not use any materials from personnel files for the purpose of discipline, or in the grievance procedure, which have been specifically denied the Union in a request for access.
282. The Employer shall provide space at each facility for a bulletin board for the use of the Union.
59
ARTICLE XXX - DISPUTES
Section 1 - Work Stoppages
283. The Employer and the Union realize that the Employer's facilities are different in their operations from industries because of services rendered to the community and for humanitarian reasons, and agree that there shall be no lockouts on the part of the Employer, nor suspension of work on the part of the employees, it being one of the purposes of this Agreement to guarantee that there will be no strikes, lockouts or work stoppages.
284. All disputes in other matters of controversy coming within the scope of this Agreement will be settled by the procedure hereinafter provided.
Section 2 - Probationary Period
285. Regular employees may be discharged without recourse to the grievance procedure within the first ninety (90) days of employment. Short Hour, Gasua! and Temporary employees may be discharged without recourse to the grievance ^procedure within the first three hundred (300) hours or ninety (90) days whichever is later.
Section 3 - Definition of Grievance
286. Grievance, as referred to in this Article, includes every dispute concerning application or interpretation of this contract and/or any dispute concerning wages, hours or working conditions. All suctrdisputes shall'be subject to the grievance procedure; however, only such grievances that allege a specific violation of the contract may be appealed to Step 3 of the grievance procedure.
Section 4 - Discussion of Request or Complaint
287. Both the Employer and the Union pledge their active, aggressive and continuing efforts to secure prompt disposition of requests, complaints and grievances; and agree that most disputes can be, should be and will be resolved in the oral discussions. In the few cases where such is not accomplished, the following procedure shall apply. Section 5 - Grievance Procedure
Stepl
288. The first step of a grievance, as defined in Section 3 above, shall be the discussion with the Department Head by the employee, Field Representative and/or Shop Steward. Every grievance must be initiated in the first step within thirty (30) working days after occurrence of the event causing the grievance or
60
the grievance shall be considered waived. Should the dispute fail to be resolved within three (3) working days after that discussion, the matter may be pursued by the Field Representative or the Chief Steward with the Employer's designee.
289. In the event the grievance concerns the discharge of the employee, the grievance must be presented in the first step within seven (7) working days following the discharge or the grievance shall be considered waived.
290. The Employer's designee must give the aggrieved employee and/or the Field Representative and/or the Shop Steward, as the case may be, an answer within three (3) working days after such discussion. The grievance shall be considered settled on the basis of the answer given and not eligible for further consideration unless it is appealed in writing within two (2) working days after the Employer's designee's answer. In the event the Employer's designee has failed to reply to the grievance, it shall automatically proceed to Step 2 if appealed by the Union within ten (10) working days after the grievance was initiated.
Step 2
291. A grievance appealed to this second step of the grievance procedure shall be in writing on a mutually agreed upon grievance form. Such grievance shall be discussed by the Field Representative and the Personnel Director at a mutually convenient time within five (5) working days after receipt by the Personnel Director of the appealed grievance into this Step 2. In the event the Personnel Director and the Union Representative conclude that they have made every reasonable effort to resolve the grievance and that further oral discussions will not result in a solution within a reasonable period of time, a grievance control number shall be assigned.
292. Only when a grievance control number has been assigned and after all avenues of discussion have been exhausted should the Personnel Director's Step 2 disposition be placed in writing on the grievance form. Such answer must be given within fifteen (15) calendar days after presentation of the grievance into this Step 2. If the Personnel Director's reply is not appealed to Step 3 within ten (10) working days after receipt in writing by the Field Representative, the grievance shall be considered settled on the basis of such reply and shall not be eligible for further appeal. If the Personnel Director fails to satisfy the time limits herein provided, the grievance shall automatically progress to Step 3 upon notification by the Union in writing within twenty (20) working days after presentation of the grievance to Step 2 that the time limits have not been waived.
Step 3
61
293. A grievance appealed to this third step must be served within the time limits previously described by the Representative of the Union to the Employee Relations Manager or his/her designee. Such notice shall state the subject matter of the grievance, identifying grievance control number and objections taken by either party to the previous disposition. Review of the appealed grievance shall take place promptly, not to exceed ten (10) working days following receipt of notice of appeal.
294. A grievance discussed in such meeting must be answered in writing by the Employee Relations Manager or his/her designee within ten (10) working days after the date of such meeting. If the reply of the Employee Relations Manager or his/her designee is not appealed to Step 4 within ten (10) calendar days after receipt in writing by the Field Representative, the grievance shall be considered-settled on the basis of such reply and shall not be eligible for further appeal. If the Employee Relations Manager or his/her designee fails to satisfy the time limits herein provided, the grievance shall automatically progress to.arbitration upon notification by the Union in writing .within thirty (30) working days after presentation of the grievance to this Step 3 that the time limits have not been waived.
Step 4
.295.
A grievance appealed to this fourth step shall be submitted .to .an .Arbitrator .who shall.be impartial and who shall be appointed by mutual agreement of the parties. In the event mutual agreement cannot be reached on an Arbitrator within ten (10) working days of receipt of notice of appeal to arbitration, the State Conciliation Service shall be asked to name a panel of five (5) individuals from which one (1) name shall be selected by the parties within five (5) working days after receipt of the names provided by the State Conciliation Service.
296. The arbitrator shall have jurisdiction and authority only to interpret, apply or determine compliance with specific terms of this Agreement and shall not have jurisdiction to add to, detract from or alter in any way the provisions of this Agreement. Any decision within the jurisdiction of the arbitrator shall be final and binding upon all concerned. The expenses and salary incident to the services of the arbitrator shall be shared equally by the Employer and the Union.
62
Section 6 - General Provisions
297. Grievances may by mutual agreement be referred back for further consideration or discussion to a prior step or advanced to a higher step of the grievance procedure.
298. Time limits specified in the processing of a grievance may be waived by mutual agreement.
299. Settlements reached in Step 1 or Step 2 of the grievance procedure shall not establish a precedent or practice for future similar or dissimilar cases unless specifically agreed to. Such agreement must be reduced to writing and state that the settlement may be used as a precedent in future cases.
300. Grievances may be filed against the Union by the Employer in accordance with the general provisions referred to in this Article.
301. Minutes shall be prepared and jointly signed by the participants in all grievance discussions which have been assigned a grievance control number. Minutes shall conform to the following general outline:
A Grievance control number.
B. Names and positions of those present, including witnesses.
C. Background information and facts.
D. Statement of Union position and reason therefor; the relevant contract provisions; past grievances and/or awards; supporting evidence and arguments.
E. Statement of Employer's position; full response to all claims; points of evidence; testimony and arguments presented by the Union; Employer evidence including past grievances and/or awards.
F. Summary of discussion.
G. Decision reached.
H. Statement of concurrence in or exceptions to minutes.
Section 7 - Modification of Procedure
302. Since the parties are determined that there will be a procedure for the resolution of all disputes which works rapidly and equitably to bring such disputes to a final resolution, the foregoing may be changed at any time by
63
mutual agreement after experience has demonstrated that any of the foregoing provisions or procedures are causing undue delays.
Section 8 - Discipline
303. Just Cause
Discipline shall be administered only for just cause.
304. Patient and Physician Complaints Patient and physician complaints will be investigated and discussed with the employee and, if the employee chooses, a Union Representative, before being used as the basis for discipline.
305. Warning Letters and Performance Evaluations Employees shall be given an opportunity to read, sign and attach written comments to formal performance evaluations or formal letters of warning prior to the placement of such material into the employee's personnel file.
306. Warning letters and performance evaluations shall become a valid part of the personnel file if they have been signed by the employee, as proof of receipt only, or the Shop Steward has been notified in writing of an employee's refusal to sign.
--
310. Indiscriminate or unauthorized review, use or disclosure of personal information, medical or otherwise, regarding any patient or employee is expressly prohibited. Except when required in the regular course of business, the discussion, use, transmission or narration, in any form, of any patient or employee information which is obtained in the regular course of business is prohibited.
ARTICLE XXXII - JOINT CONFERENCE ON SERVICE RELATED ISSUES
311. On a mutually agreed upon date in each year of this Agreement, the Employer and the Union will sponsor a region-wide joint conference on service related issues. The purpose of this conference will be to provide the Employer and employees with the opportunity to exchange views on enhancing the professionalism of employees in classifications covered by this Agreement and the contribution of all employees to the provision of service to Health Plan members. Execution of this conference shall be subject to the following:
A. Attendees at the conference shall consist of one (1) employee selected by the Union and one (1) employee selected by the Employer for each medical center. Each party shall designate a chairperson from among the selected attendees. The Committee representatives will report to and involve the medical offices (clinics) in their area. Chairpersons shall have the authority to work out coordination of representatives and if mutually agreed expand the number as necessary. Two (2) Labor Relations representatives of the Employer and. two (2) representatives of the Union may observe the activities of the conference but shall be excluded from participation. Attendees shall be paid for time spent at the conference at their regular hourly rate of pay.
B. The conference may cover a period of up to eight (8) hours on a mutually agreed date each year. Each party shall have one-half (1/2) of the scheduled conference time to present issues and to discuss them, unless otherwise mutually agreed.
C. No later than thirty (30) days prior to the conference the two (2) chairpersons and two (2) committee members from each side referenced in A. above shall meet to determine the conference format and the most efficient ways of maximizing available conference time. They will also exchange agendas of items each party wishes to discuss at the conference. The chairpersons shall moderate the conference. Attendees shall be paid at their regular rate for time spent at the joint agenda planning session.
65
D. Issues which are covered by the provisions of this Agreement, which are proper subjects of collective bargaining between the Employer and the Union, or which are the proper subject of the grievance procedure contained herein shall not be discussed at this conference.
E. Publication or discussion of the content or results of the conference shall be limited to the Union and employees of the Employer and minutes shall be kept of all conference proceedings. Information regarding the conference shall be disseminated jointly through the facility service committee representatives.
F. At each conference the attendees shall determine if any follow-up activity subsequent to the conference is needed. If such a determination is made, the attendees shall develop the procedures which will govern such activity. Any mutually agreed upon joint followup activity shall be paid at the employee's regular hourly rate.
G. Nothing in this Article shall be subject to the grievance and arbitration provisions of this Agreement, with the exception of dispute related to pay as set forth above.
ARTICLE XXXMI - COMPETITIVE WAGE REVIEW AND EQUITY ADJUSTMENTS
312. During September in each year of this Labor Agreement, excluding the year in which the contract expires, the Employer will meet with representatives of the Union to review specific job classifications, identified by each party, as requiring wage increases over and above the negotiated wage increases for that specific year. Wage data used by the Employer or the Union in identifying such classifications shall be reviewed by the parties prior to the Employer implementing any changes in the previously negotiated wage rates. Nothing herein shall limit nor change the parties* rights under the Collective Bargaining Agreement or be used to modify any of the provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. Disputes under this Article shall not be subject to the provisions of Article XXX ("Disputes").
ARTICLE XXXIV - LABOR-MANAGEMENT COMMON INTEREST FORUM
313. Effective January 1, 1990, the parties hereby agree to establish a Joint LaborManagement Common Interest Forum at each Medical Center and Free Standing Medical Office Building (presently Stockton and Fresno), Livermore and the Berkeley Complex in order to improve labor-management and employee-employer relations. The purpose of the Common Interest Forum shall be to address issues of mutual concern to the Union and the Employer. The Common Interest Forum shall consist of no more than eight (8)
66
representatives chosen by the Union and no more than eight (8) representatives chosen by the Employer and shall meet on a quarterly basis at mutually agreeable times and places. 314. Employee representatives on the Labor-Management Common Interest Forum shall be paid at their straight-time hourly rate for time spent at meetings of the Common Interest Forum. 315. The Common Interest Forums shall not engage in collective bargaining nor shall they resolve issues which have already been raised under the Dispute Resolution Procedure. 316. Except for pay as referenced in paragraph 312 above none of the provisions of this Article shall be subject to the Dispute Resolution Procedure of this Agreement. 317. Nothing herein shall: 1. Dissolve, restrict or prevent continuation of existing committees. 2. Require Medical Centers to have more than one (1) Labor-
Management Committee, provided such committee meets the above conditions. 3. Preclude the participation of employees represented by other bargaining units. 4. Preclude the parties from mutually agreeing to meet more often than quarterly.
ARTICLE XXXV - SAVINGS CLAUSE
318. If any provision of this Agreement is found to be in conflict with the laws of the State of California or of the United States of America or any agency thereof, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
67
ARTICLE XXXVI - DURATION OF AGREEMENT 319. Except as otherwise specifically provided, this Agreement shall be
effective as of October 1, 2000, and shall continue in effect through the month, day, and year as specified in the National Agreement, Section 3: Scope of The Agreement, D. Term of Agreement and shall be automatically renewed from year to year thereafter, unless either party serves upon the other ninety (90) days prior written notice of a desire to modify this agreement, it shall contain the provisions of the Agreement which that party desires to be modified. If such notice to modify or terminate is timely served, negotiations shall commence between the parties within fifteen (15) days after receipt thereof.
68
1
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the day herein above written.
KAISER FOUNDATION HOSPITALS THE PERMANENTE MEDICAL GROUP, INC.
KAISER FOUNDATION HEALTH PLAN
NANCY A. CARLSON Manager, Labor Relations
SANDI SMALL Vice President/Service Manager
HENRY DIAZ ASST. Mgr. Labor Relations
DEANNAMEDINAS Medical Group Administrator
MINYON ROBINSON Senior Labor Relations Representative
ROSE CARINO Director, Internal Medicine
TONY GATELY VP & Regional Medical Group Administrator
DAVID ISAAC HR Consultant
MARYANN THODE Sr. VP & Chief Operating Officer
ANDREA OSTLING Project Manager
ANABEL ANDERSON-IMBERT, MD Physician in Chief
JAIME VARGUARA Manager, Celular Pathology
DIANNE PRESTON Asst. Regional Medical Group Administrator
HELEN GALLEGOS Director, HIM Services
SHARON EASTMAN Asst. Regional Medical Group Administrator
GREG SOUZA Director, HR Services
ED PORTER Administrative Services Director
ROBERT BRUUN Medical Group Administrator
69
DEBORAH ROMER Medical Group Administrator
BOB BROSNAN HR Leader
PAT KENDALL Medical Group Administrator
--
71
GAIL MATULOVICH, Richmond GAYLE VALVERDE, Roseville MAUREEN FARRO, Sacramento CARLOYN PERKINS, San Francisco GLORIA FERNANDEZ, San Jose CC MORRIS CERVANTES, San Rafael ROY MORGAN, San Rafael
CINDY THOMAS, Santa Rosa DOROTHY MARCELLE, Santa Teresa CORRINE WILSON, Stockton CAROL MORRIS, S Sacramento LINDA ROSE, Vacaville MIKE GRAHAM, Vallejo ROY CHAFFEE, Vallejo CC
72
APPENDIX A WAGE ADMINISTRATIVE PRACTICES
Section 1. WAGE STRUCTURE DEFINITIONS
A. Structure A
Structure "A" is the pay structure for all employees hired on or before October 25, 1986. All such employees will remain on this structure and move accordingly. This structure shall apply to employees in Areas I and
B. Structure B-l
Structure "B-P is the pay structure for all employees hired on or after October 26, 1986 in Area I.
C. Structure B-2
Structure "B-2" is the pay structure for employees hired on or after October 26, 1986 in Area II.
Section 2. GEOGRAPHIC AREA DEFINITIONS
Area I and Area II shall be defined as follows:
AREA I
1950 Franklin and Environs Antioch Campbell Fairfield Fremont Gilroy Hayward Martinez Milpitas Mountain View Napa Novato Oakland Petaluma
Pleasanton Redwood City Richmond San Francisco (including French) San Jose San Rafael Santa Clara Santa Rosa Santa Teresa South San Francisco Vacaville Vallejo Walnut Creek
AREA
73
Davis Fresno Modesto/Stanislaus Rancho Cordova Roseville
Sacramento South Sacramento Stockton
Section 3. ADMINISTRATION OF WAGE STRUCTURE "A"
Employees on Structure "A" shall remain on that Structure regardless of any transfers, promotions or demotions within or between Areas I and II.
Section 4. ADMINISTRATION OF WAGE STRUCTURES "B-1" AND "B-2"
Employees on Structure "B-1" or Structure "B-2" will remain on either of these two "B" Structures but may move between the two Structures as a result of the following:
A. Lateral transfers between Area I and Area II - Employees on either Structure B-1 or B-2 who permanently transfer between the two Areas in the same job classification will be placed on the "B" Structure within the Area to which the employee transfers. The employee will be placed on the tenure step of the new "B" Structure which is the same as the tenure step held on the previous "B" Structure. Tenure credit earned on the previous "B" Structure will apply for movement to higher tenure steps on the new "B" Structure.
B. Promotions and Demotions between Area I and Area II In determining the appropriate wage rates for employees who are promoted or demoted into a different area, the following shall apply:
The employee will first be treated as a lateral transfer in accordance with (1) above. Once the lateral transfer wage rate and tenure step is determined, the appropriate promotion or demotion language contained in Article XI, Section 9, #144 (C) or #145 (D) or Article XI, Section 10, #147 (B) or #150 (D) shall be applied.
74
Section 5. SELECTION OF EMPLOYEES AND WAGE STRUCTURES Employees shall be considered for promotions, demotions, transfers and reductions in force based upon the seniority provisions and other relevant sections outlined in the Labor Agreement. Wage structures will not be a factor in selecting employees for promotions, demotions, transfers and reductions in force.
75
APPENDIX B
LIST OF CLASSIFICATIONS
A. MAINTENANCE AND SERVICE CLASSIFICATIONS
Head Housekeeping Aide
Linen Room Supervisor Storekeeper Housekeeping Aide Watchman Cook in Charge Cook A Cook B Dishwasher/Potwasher Fountain Attendant Nutrition Aide Nutrition Cierk Sr. Nutrition Clerk Driver/Foreman Truck Driver Warehouse Leadman Warehouseman Radiographic Film Processing Technician Sr. Messenger Driver Messenger Driver Sr. Gardener Gardener Yardkeeper Custodian Watchman Storekeeper I Storekeeper II Chief Storekeeper Service Partner
(Berkeley and Livermore only) (Berkeleyand Livermore only) (Berkeley and Livermore only) (Berkeley and Livermore only) (Berkeley,and Livermore only)
B. LICENSED NURSING CLASSIFICATIONS
Sr. Licensed Vocational Nurse Licensed Vocational Nurse
76
c. NURSING CLASSIFICATIONS
--
23.4042 24.0201 24.6359 25.1146 25.7127 26.3095 24.6544 25.3028 25.9519 26.5494 27.5066 28.7026 29.8985
REGL LAB SUPPORT SPEC
15.1850 15.5745 15.9739 16.2712 16.7018 17.1332
RESP CARE PRACTR-SUPV
RESP CARE PRACTRI RESP CARE PRACTR II
25.8870 26.5680
22.2898 22.8765 23.4804 24.0982
27.2496
23.4630 24.7161
27.8769
23.9186 25.2851
28.8819
24.4884 26.1968
30.1378
25.0578 27.3356
31.3932
0.0000 28.4747
107
WAGE RATES EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 8, 2000 STRUCTURE A/B1
Job Title
START 1 YEAR 2 YEARS 3 YEARS 4 YEARS 5 YEARS 6 YEARS
RESPIRATORY CARE PERMITTEE 20.0608
RESPIRATORY SUPPLY AIDE RESPIRATORY SUPPLY AIDE SR
SERVICE PARTNER
STERILE PROC TECH II - CERT STERILE PROC TECH SR - CERT STERILE PROCESSING TECH I
STOCK ROOM ASST "REG LAB SR STOCK RM ASST REG LAB ONLY
14.3883 14.7570 14.6356 15.0109
--
REG RESPIRATORY THER TECH I 24.3404 24.9809 25.6213 26.1192 26.7412 27.3619 REG RESPIRATORY THER TECH l\ 25.6406 26.3149 26.9900 27.6114 28.6069 29.8507 31.0944
15.7924 16.1975 16.6129 16.9220 17.3699 17.8185
112
WAGE RATES EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 7, 2001 STRUCTURE A/B1
RESP CARE PRACTR - SUPV RESP CARE PRACTITIONER I RESP CARE PRACTITIONER II RESPIRATORY CARE PERMITTEE
26.9225 23.1814 24.4196 20.8632
27.6307 23.7916 25.0621
28.3396 24.4015 25.7047
28.9920 24.8753 26.2965
30.0372 25.4679 27.2447
31.3433 26.0601 28.4290
32.6489 29.6137
RESPIRATORY SUPPLY AIDE
14.9638 15.3473 15.7409 16.1022 16.4769 16.8113
RESPIRATORY SUPPLY AIDE SR 15.2210 15.6113 16.0118 16.3064 16.7342 17.1624
14.5620 14.9353 15.3181 15.7195 16.1208
STERILE PROC TECH - SR - CERT 16.8322 17.2638 17.7061 18.1131 18.5343 18.9107
STERILE PROC TECH I I - C E R T
--
REG RESPIRATORY THEP TECH I 25.3140 25.9801 26.6462 27.1640 27.8108 28.4564 REG RESPIRATORY THEP TECH II 26.6662 27.3675 28.0696 28.7159 29.7512 31.0447 32.3382
16.4241 16.8454 17.2774 17.5989 18.0647 18.5312
117
WAGE RATES EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 6, 2002 STRUCTURE A/B1
RESP CARE PRACT - SUPV RESP CARE PRACTITIONER I RESP CARE PRACTITIONER II RESPIRATORY CARE PERMITTEE
27.9994 28.7359 24.1087 24.7433 25.3964 26.0646 21.6977
29.4732 25.3776 26.7329
30.1517 25.8703 27.3484
31.2387 26.4866 28.3345
32.5970 27.1025 29.5662
33.9549 30.7982
15.5624 15.9612 16.3705 16.7463 17.1360 17.4838
RESPIRATORY SUPPLY AIDE SR 15.8298 16.2358 16.6523 16.9587 17.4036 17.8489
15.1445 15.5327 15.9308 16.3483 16.7656
STERILE'PROCTECH CERT SR STERILE PROC TECH II - CERT STERILE PROCESSING TECH I
17.5055 17.9544 16.8324 17.2636 16.1850 16.5998
18.4143 17.7062 17.0252
--
26.3266 27.0193 27.7120 28.2506 28.9232 29.5947 27.7328 28.4622 29.1924 29.8645 30.9412 32.2865 33.6317
17.0811 17.5192 17.9685 18.3029 18.7873 19.2724
WAGE RATES EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 5, 2003 STRUCTURE A/B1
RESP CARE PRACTITIONER I RESP CARE PRACTITIONER II RESP CARE PRACT SUPV
25.0730 25.7330 26.4123 27.1072 29.1194 29.8853
26.3927 27.8022 30.6521
26.9051 28.4423 31.3578
27.5461 29.4679 32.4882
28.1866 30.7488 33.9009
32.0301 35.3131
122
RESPIRATORY CARE PERMITTEE 22.5656
16.1849 16.5996 17.0253 17.4162 17.8214 18.1832
RESPIRATORY SUPPLY AIDE SR 16.4630 16.8852 17.3184 17.6370 18.0997 18.5629
15.7503 16.1540 16.5680 17.0022 17.4362
STERILE PROC TECH II CERT STERILE PROC TECH SR CERT STERILE PROCESSING TECH 1
17.5057 17.9541 18.2057 18.6726 16.8324 17.2638
--
REG RESPIRATORY THER TECH 27.3797 28.1001 28.8205 29.3806 30.0801 30.7785 REG RESPIRATORY THER TECH 28.8421 29.6007 30.3601 31.0591 32.1788 33.5780 34.9770
17.7643 18.2200 18.6872 19.0350 19.5388 20.0433
26.0759 26.7623 27.4688 28.1915 30.2842 31.0807
27.4484 28.9143 31.8782
27.9813 29.5800 32.6121
28.6479 30.6466 33.7877
29.3141 31.9788 33.3113 35.2569 36.7256
127
WAGE RATES EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 3, 2004 STRUCTURE A/B1
RESPIRATORY CARE PERMITTEE 23.4682
16.8323 17.2636 17.7063 18.1128 18.5343 18.9105
RESPIRATORY SUPPLY AIDE SR 17.1215 17.5606 18.0111 18.3425 18.8237 19.3054
16.3803 16.8002 17.2307 17.6823 18.1336
STERILE PROC CERT TECH II STERILE PROC CERT TECH SR STERILE PROCESSING TECH I
18.2059 18.6723 19.1510 19.5911 20.0467 20.4537 18.9339 19.4195 19.9169 20.3747 20.8486 21.2720 17.5057 17.9544 18.4144 18.8376 19.2757 19.6669
STOCK ROOM ASST REG LAB SR 18.5380 19.0254 19.5133 19.7751 20.0368 20.5130 STOCK RM ASST REG. LAB ONLY 16.8423 17.2855 17.7286 17.9664 18.2048 18.6564
--
SERVICE PERFORMANCE PAY PROGRAM - PILOT PROJECT
Lump sum service performance payments will be made as follows to eligible employees based on service performance as rated by the Kaiser Permanente Health Plan Membership for the years 1998,1999 and 2000.
Measurement Years: 1998,1999 and 2000
Performance Targets
Threshold Target Stretch
Performance Measurement:
Points Improvement
2 3 4
Payout Percentage
1.5% 2.0% 2.5%
The measurement instrument shall be the Kaiser Permanente Member and Patient Surveys to the following questions:
Thinking of your experiences in the past 12 months, how would you rate Kaiser Permanente on providing you with:
--
The parties agree to establish a region-wide joint Training Institute. A Board shall be established for this Institute and shall consist of five (5) management representatives and five (5) employee representatives and shall meet as necessary beginning in the first quarter of 1997. Employee representatives shall be designated by the Union and may include Union field representatives who are compensated by the Union. The combination of employee and Union representatives shall not exceed five (5) members. Such meetings shall be arranged and scheduled by mutual agreement. The Board shall identify and address joint employee/management labor relations development needs. In order to meet this objective, the Board shall implement joint education and training efforts which foster and enhance the relationships between employees and management and which improve employee/management understanding of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
The Board shall convene under the following principles:
A. The Board shall research the amount of funding necessary to meet the above objectives and present a budget recommendation to the Executive Vice President of Kaiser Foundation Health Plan and Executive Director of The Permanente Medical Group for approval. The recommended budget shall be submitted and reviewed by June 1, 1997, and shall include Institute budget needs for the remaining term of this Agreement.
B. The Board shall have the authority to hire an Institute director or consultant. At the Board's direction, the director or consultant shall manage the funding, plan assessment and training activities, implement training, direct and oversee training efforts, identify appropriate external and internal resources, approve payment for training materials and resources utilized for the training efforts, and interview and hire consultants/trainers/speakers.
C. This provision of the Collective Bargaining Agreement shall be considered a pilot approach to conducting joint employee/management labor relations training and shall extend to successor agreements only upon mutual agreement of the parties. Prior to the expiration of this Agreement, the Board shall assess the effectiveness of the Institute and prepare recommendations for consideration of the parties regarding the continued viability of the Institute.
178
D. The employee representatives of the Board shall be compensated for time spent at Board meetings.
E. Issues which are covered by the provisions of this Agreement, which are proper subjects of collective bargaining between the Employer and the Union, or .which are the proper subject of the grievance procedure contained herein, shall not be discussed by this Board. Nothing in this Article shall be subject to the grievance and arbitration provisions of this Agreement, with the exception of disputes related to the pay of employee committee members. Discussions or agreements made pursuant to this Article are nonprecedent setting and may not be used in whole or in part in any dispute.
179
APPENDIX K
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
KAISER PERMANENTE MEDICAL CARE PROGRAM NORTHERN CALIFORNIA REGION (Excluding the Fresno Medical Center) and H.C.W.U., LOCAL 250
MEMBER FOCUSED CARE INITIATIVE
Health Care Workers Union, Local 250 and Kaiser Permanente agree to the following with regard to the implementation of the Member Focused Care Initiative in the Northern California Region (excluding the Fresno Medical Center). The provisions contained herein will apply at the time a medical center introduces the Member Focused Care. Initiative.
It is agreed and understood that each medicai center shali retain the right to implement a portion or all of the Member Focused Care Initiative or not implement the Initiative at all.
1. NOTICE OF IMPLEMENTATION:
When a Medical Center is prepared to implement the Member Focused Care Initiative, the following steps will be taken:
A. The facility will provide the appropriate Union Field Representative (copy to the Union Kaiser Division Director) with thirty (30) days advance written notice of its intent to implement Member Focused Care.
B. Within the thirty (30) day period described in A. above, a meeting at the facility will be held between the Union and facility management at a mutually agreed upon time and date. The purpose of such meeting will be for management to advise the Union of its implementation and posting plan and to provide the Union with appropriate supportive documentation such as a list of affected employees, current schedules, bargaining unit seniority of affected employees, etc.
C. Joint union-management departmental meetings at the facility will be held at mutually agreeable times to introduce implementation plans to affected employees and to answer questions from affected employees.
D. Prior to implementation of layoffs, the Employer will meet with the Union to discuss alternatives to layoffs that will minimize the impact on employees.
E. Member Focused Care positions will be posted. Qualified employees will be awarded such positions based upon bargaining unit seniority. It is understood that employees can only bid on "like" hours positions (i.e., 24 to
180
24 hours, 32 to 32 hours, etc.). If "like" hours positions are not available, the Parties shall meet to discuss special situations.
F. Daily staffing reductions in other nursing units will not affect the staffing assignments on the Member Focused Care units for a period of sixty (60) days post implementation, unless deemed necessary by operational requirements or permanent reduction in force.
G. For the Service Partner classification, the duties of feeding patients and recording intake following meal completion shall not be implemented earlier than thirty (30) days after the initial implementation of Member Focused Care, unless mutually agreed by the parties to waive this provision.
SENIORITY:
Kaiser Permanente agrees to adhere to the seniority provisions as outlined in the Collective Bargaining Agreement between Local 250 and Kaiser Permanente Medical Care Program.
Hospital-wide (KFH) seniority will be recognized within the KFH Nursing Department for the Local 250 positions.
The Employer will provide the Union with copies of all job postings prior to the actual posting of new positions.
TRAINING:
Kaiser Permanente management recognizes the fact that transfer applicants may not possess all of the necessary or required job skills. Kaiser Permanente management, during the implementation stages, agrees to provide the necessary training to supplement some of the skills that transfer applicants would bring to the workplace. Necessary training will be at the Employer's expense.
Employees shall be given on-the-job training necessary to meet the minimum qualifications of the posted position. Such on-the-job training shall be determined by the Employer and reviewed with the Union.
With regard to layoffs resulting from employees' inability to satisfactorily demonstrate the skills required of the position at the conclusion of the training period or layoffs as a result of operational requirements to reduce in force, the parties agree to abide by the terms and conditions surrounding these issues that arise from the bargaining of the Collective Bargaining Agreement upon ratification.
181
4. WAGES:
Wage rates are set forth in the Master Collective Bargaining Agreement and are reflected in Appendix D for the Service Partner and Care Partner (unlicensed) classifications.
5. POSITION QUALIFICATIONS:
The parties did not reach agreement on position qualifications for internal transfer applicants. Disputes arising out of or in connection with job bid denials shall be subject to the Dispute Resolution Process developed for the implementation of Member Focused Care.
6. DISPUTE RESOLUTION PROCESS:
It is the intent of the parties to utilize a proactive approach to resolving issues before they become grievances.
The Human Resources Consultant and/or the Service Director or designee and the Chief Shop Steward and/or Field Representative shall meet to resolve any and all disputes that may arjse including,.but not limited to, those that relate to awarding of jobs (and denials thereof) and the satisfactory completion of training in connection with the implementation of Member Focused Care.
Should the parties be unable to mutually resolve any issue(s), the-Kaiser Division Director or his/her designee for Local 250 and the Patient Care Leader or his/her designee shall resolve the issue expeditiously. If the parties are unable to reach agreement they may elect to utilize a mediator. If there is still no resolution an expedited arbitration process will be used. Any decision made by the arbitrator shall be non-precedent setting, but shall be binding on both parties. All costs shall be borne equally by both parties.
7. NON-PRECEDENT SETTING:
It is understood and agreed by all parties that this Agreement shall not constitute precedent for either party nor shall either party use any portion of this Agreement in any pending or future case of a similar or dissimilar nature.
This Letter of Agreement shall become effective on the date of its execution by both parties and shall remain in effect until modified or canceled by mutual agreement.
The provisions of the Letter of Agreement relate solely to Member Focused Care and shall not be used or relied upon by either party for any other purposes.
182
APPENDIX L
Agreement for Flexible Work Arrangement (Position Title)
This Agreement, effective
, modifies the Collective Bargaining
Agreement between the KAISER FOUNDATION HOSPITALS, THE PERMANENTE MEDICAL
GROUP, INC., AND KAISER FOUNDATION HEALTH PLAN (hereinafter referred to as the
"Employer") and the HOSPITAL AND HEALTH CARE WORKERS' UNION, LOCAL 250,
S.E.I.U. (hereinafter referred to as the "Union"). The agreement has been initiated at the request of
the affected employees to implement a flexible work arrangement for all Regular Full-Time
within the
Department.
Nothing herein shall obligate the Employer to establish a flexible work arrangement.
The Employer and the Union agree to adopt a flexible work arrangement, commencing on Sunday. Full-time employees subject to this agreement will receive overtime compensation of one and onehalf (IV2) times their regular rate of pay for any hours worked in excess of forty (40) in a work week and double time for all hours worked in excess of twelve (12) in a workday.
The parties acknowledge that at least two-thirds (2/3) of the affected employees have voluntarily agreed in writing to work four (4) ten (10) hour shifts. (Affected employees include all employees in a readily identifiable work unit, such as a division, a department, a job classification, a shift, a separate physical location, or a recognized subdivision of any such work unit.) Additionally, a secret ballot vote was conducted in accordance with Section 3B of the Industrial Welfare Commission Order 5-89. At the end of one (1) year, if one-third (1/3) of the affected employees petition for a vote to terminate this agreement, the Employer will conduct a secret ballot vote. Provided that at least two-thirds (2/3) of the affected employees vote in support of the agreement, this agreement may be extended.
Unless otherwise provided below, all other provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement shall remain in force.
a. All full-time employees shall have the option to select a four-day, ten-hour-per-day schedule (hereinafter referred to as the "4x10 Schedule") or a five-day, eight-hourper-day schedule (hereinafter referred to as the "5x8 Schedule"), subject to operational needs.
b. The overtime provisions of Article VIII, Section 3, Paragraph 98, of the Agreement that refer to premium pay for work performed in excess of eight hours in any one workday are waived for all full-time employees working a 4 x 10 Schedule.
183
c. The overtime provisions of the Industrial Welfare Commission Orders 4 and 5, Sections 3 (A), (1), in accordance with Section 3 (k) are waived for all full-time employees working a 4x10 Schedule.
d. Accruals for sick leave, vacation, educational leave, etc., shall be based on full-time employees' scheduled hours per the agreement. Full-time employees covered by this agreement shall be allowed to utilize their vacation, sick leave, etc., in eight (8) hour increments (if on a 5 x 8 Schedule) or ten (10) hour increments (if on a 4 x 10 Schedule) up to their maximum allowable hours per the agreement.
e. For holidays only, full-time employees covered by the agreement shall be allowed to utilize their maximum of eighty (80) hours of holiday benefits in ten (10) or eight (8) hour increments. Holidays shall be paid in accordance with the Collective Bargaining Agreement, except that, if a full-time employee covered by the agreement works on a holiday, he/she shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (114) and shall also begiven a paid day off or an additional day's pay equal to the actual hours worked on such holiday, not to exceed ten (10) hours at straight-time pay. Employer shall have the option to schedule three eight (8) hour shifts or two ten (10) and one four (4) hour shift, in order to meet operational needs and to avoid holiday staffing/overtime in excess oftwenty-hour (24) hours.
f. For purposes of Article IX, Shift Premium, the shift differential, if any, which applies at-the start of the ten (10) hour shift, shall remain in affect for the complete shift.
g. Employees will receive one (1) unpaid thirty (30) minute lunch period and two (2) rest periods per ten (10) hour shift. Such rest periods shall be taken in the middle of each five (5) hour segment.
h. The Employer shall continue its policy of establishing scheduled days of work and days off, subject to operational needs. This agreement allows the affected file clerks to work either a 4 x 10 Schedule or a 5 x 8 Schedule.
i. Affected full-time file clerks wishing to change from a 4 x 10 Schedule or a 5 x 8 scheduling must request such change in writing. No person will be allowed more than one change in each three (3) month period. Changes shall be subject to operational needs.
j.
Either party may terminate this agreement after thirty (30) days written notice is
given to the other party.
k. Either party may terminate this agreement after thirty (30) days written notice is given to the other party. Upon termination of this agreement, the schedule in effect immediately preceding the implementation of this flexible work schedule shall be reinstated. Unless terminated in accordance with paragraph (j) above, this agreement shall remain in effect.
184
This agreement covers all Regular Full-Time File Clerks only in the Outpatient Medical Records Department and shall not constitute a precedent or practice for either party.
KAISER FOUNDATION HOSPITALS THE PERMANENTE MEDICAL GROUP, INC., AND KAISER FOUNDATION HEALTH PLAN
BY:
Department
Date
Human Resources Consultant
HOSIPTAL AND HEALTHCARE WORKERS' UNION, LOCAL 250, S.E.I.U.
Local 250 Representative
185
MEDICAL CENTER/ DEPARTMENT
4/40 WORKWEEK AGREEMENT COVERS FULL-TIME REGULAR EMPLOYEES
This Agreement effective
, modifies the Collective Bargaining Agreement
between the KAISER PERMANENTE MEDICAL CARE PROGRAM ( hereinafter referred to as
the Employer) and
_ _ _ _ ^ (hereinafter referred to as
the Union) for the purposes of establishing a ten hour, four day workweek (4/40 workweek) for
employees within the
The parties acknowledge that at least two-thirds of the affected employees have voluntarily agreed in writing to work four ten-hour shifts. (Affected employees include all employees in a readily identifiable work unit, such as a division, a department, a job classification, a shift, a separate physical location, or a recognized subdivision of any such work unit). Additionally, a secret ballot vote was conducted in accordance with Section 3B of the Industrial Welfare Commission Order 589. At the end of one (1) year if 1/3 of the affected employees petition for a vote to terminate this agreement, the Employer willconduct a secret ballot vote. Provided that at least 2/3 of the affected employee's vote in support of the Agreement, this Agreement maybe extended.
Unless otherwise provided-below, all other provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement shall remain in force.
a. The overtime provisions of Article
, Paragraph
are waived,
while the overtime provisions of Section 3 B of the California State Industrial Welfare
Commission Order 5-89 remain in effect.
b. Accruals for sick leave, vacations, educational leave, etc. shall be based on forty (40) hours of work per week. For the purposes of this Agreement, one "day* as referred to in the Master Agreement is equivalent to ten (10) hours. For example, if an employee takes one vacation day, he/she will receive ten (10) hours of vacation pay.
c. For holidays only, employees covered by this Agreement shall be allowed to utilize their maximum of eighty (80) hours of holiday benefits in either ten (10) hour or eight (8) hour increments. Holidays shall be paid in accordance with the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
d. For purposes of Article
, Section
- Shift Differentials, the shift differential, if
any, which applies at the start of the ten(10) hour shift shall remain in effect for the complete
shift.
e. The Employer shall continue its policy of establishing scheduled days of work and days off, i.e., preference of days of work and days off shall be granted by seniority, subject to operational needs, with the understanding that weekends may be rotated in accordance with
186
Article
. Any schedule changes made after the schedule is posted shall be in
accordance with Article of the current Collective Bargaining Agreement.
f. Employees will receive one (1) unpaid thirty-minute lunch period and two (2) rest periods per ten (10) hour shift. Such rest periods shall be taken in the middle of each five (5) hour segment.
g. Either party may terminate this Agreement after thirty (30) days written notice is given to the other party.
--
attached):
1) The Employer is not required to pay the premium wage rate prescribed in Section (A) for the ninth and tenth hours worked during such work days.
2) If an employee on such a four day work schedule is required or permitted to work more than ten (10) hours in any work day, the premium wage rate provisions in subsection (A) shall apply to such employee for those hours worked in excess of the tenth hour of that work day.
3) Any employee on such a schedule who is required or permitted to work on more than four (4) work days in a workweek shall be compensated at the rate of not less than one and one half (11/2)times the employee's regular rate of pay for the first eight (8) hours on such additional work days, and double the employee's regular rate of pay for work in excess of eight (8) hours on those work days.
(Sub Section A, as cited above, refers to the requirements to compensate employees one and one half (11/2) times their regular rate for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours up to and including twelve (12) hours in any one work day. )
It is understood that the actual implementation of a 4-40 work schedule requires the adjustment of certain contractual provisions and the written agreement of my collective bargaining agent.
SIGNATURE
DATE
I,
do not agree to any change in the provisions of overtime
payments of provided for by State and Federal regulations or Company policy, as may be
appropriate.
188

Binary file (standard input) matches
